<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="container">
         <div class="meta">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: George W. Bush</li>
               <li> Party: Republican</li>
               <li> Religion: Methodist</li>
               <li> Profession: Businessman</li>
               <li> Date: January 20, 2001</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMENU">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:pink"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="military"/>Military</li>
               <li style="color:cyan"><input type="checkbox" value="civil_rights"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="government"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      <div class="home">Thank you all.<br/>Chief Justice Rehnquist, President Carter, President Bush—<br/>President Clinton, distinguished guests, and my fellow citizens:<br/>This peaceful transfer of authority is rare in history, yet common
         in our country. With a simple oath, we affirm old traditions and make new
         beginnings.<br/>As I begin, I thank President Clinton for his service to our Nation.<br/>And I thank Vice President Gore for a contest conducted with spirit and ended with
         grace.<br/>I am honored and humbled to stand here, where so many of America’s leaders have come
         before me and so many will follow.<br/>We have a place, all of us, in a long story; a story we continue, but whose end we
         will
         not see. It is the story of a new world that became a friend and liberator of the
         old,
         the story of a <span class="value democracy">slave-holding society that became a servant of
            freedom</span>, the story of a power that went into the
         world to protect but not possess, to defend but not to conquer. It is the American story; a story of flawed and fallible people,
         united across the generations by grand and enduring ideals.<br/>The grandest of these ideals is an unfolding American promise: <span class="value equality">that everyone belongs, that everyone deserves a chance, that no insignificant
            person was ever born</span>.<br/>Americans are called to enact this promise in our lives and in our laws. And though
         our
         Nation has sometimes halted, and sometimes delayed, we must follow no other course.<br/>Through much of the last century, <span class="value democracy">America’s faith in freedom and
            democracy was a rock in a raging sea</span>. <span class="policy foreign">Now
            it is a seed upon the wind, taking root in many nations</span>.<br/><span class="value democracy">Our democratic faith is more than the creed of our country, it is
            the inborn hope of our humanity; an ideal we carry but do not own, a trust we bear
            and pass along</span>. <span class="value progress">And even after nearly 225 years, we
            have a long way yet to travel</span>.<br/>While many of our citizens prosper, others doubt the promise—even the justice—of our
         own
         country. <span class="policy education">The ambitions of some Americans are limited by failing
            schools</span>, <span class="value equality">and hidden prejudice, and the circumstances
            of their birth</span>. And sometimes our differences run so deep, it seems we share
         a continent, but not a country.<br/>We do not accept this, and we will not allow it. <span class="value unity">Our unity, our
            union, is the serious work of leaders and citizens in every generation</span>. And
         this is my solemn pledge: I will work to build a single nation of justice and
         opportunity.<br/>
         I know this is within our reach, <span class="value religion">because we are guided by a power larger than ourselves who creates
            us equal in His image</span>. <br/><span class="value unity">And we are confident in principles that unite and lead us
            onward</span>.<br/><span class="value unity">America has never been united by blood or birth or soil. We are bound
            by ideals that move us beyond our backgrounds, lift us above our interests, and
            teach us what it means to be citizens</span>. Every child
         must be taught these principles. Every citizen must uphold them. <span class="policy immigration">And every immigrant, by embracing these ideals, makes our country
            more, not less, American</span>.<br/><span class="value civility">Today we affirm a new commitment to live out our Nation’s promise
            through civility, courage, compassion, and character</span>.<br/><span class="value civility">America, at its best, matches a commitment to principle with a
            concern for civility</span>.<br/><span class="value civility">A civil society demands from each of us good will and respect,
            fair dealing and forgiveness</span>.<br/>Some seem to believe that our politics can afford to be petty because, in a time of
         peace, the stakes of our debates appear small. But the stakes, for America, are never
         small. <span class="policy foreign">If our country does not lead the cause of
            freedom, it will not be led</span>. If we do not turn the
         hearts of children toward knowledge and character, we will lose their gifts and
         undermine their idealism. <span class="policy economy">If we permit our economy
            to drift and decline, the vulnerable will suffer most</span>.<br/>We must live up to the calling we share. <span class="value civility">Civility is not a tactic
            or a sentiment. It is the determined choice of trust over cynicism, of community
            over chaos. And this commitment, if we keep it, is a way to shared
            accomplishment</span>.<br/>America, at its best, is also courageous.<br/>Our national courage has been clear in times of
         depression and war, when defeating common dangers defined our common good. Now we
         must choose if the example of our fathers and mothers will inspire us or condemn
         us. We must show courage in a time of
         blessing by confronting problems instead of passing them onto future
         generations.<br/><span class="policy education">Together we will reclaim America’s schools, before ignorance and apathy claim more
            young lives</span>. <span class="policy health">We will reform Social Security and Medicare</span>, sparing our children from struggles we have the power to
         prevent. <span class="policy economy">And we will reduce taxes, to recover the
            momentum of our economy and reward the efforts and enterprise of working
            Americans</span>.<br/>We will build our defenses beyond challenge, lest weakness invite
         challenge.<br/><span class="policy military">We will confront weapons of mass destruction, so that a new century is
            spared new horrors</span>.<br/><span class="value democracy">The enemies of liberty and our country should make no
            mistake</span>, <span class="policy foreign">America remains engaged in the world,
            by history and by choice, shaping a balance of power that favors freedom. We will
            defend our allies and our interests. We will show purpose without arrogance. We will
            meet aggression and bad faith with resolve and strength. And to all nations, we will
            speak for the values that gave our Nation birth</span>.<br/>America, at its best, is compassionate.<br/>In the quiet of American conscience, we know that <span class="value equality">deep, persistent
            poverty is unworthy of our Nation’s promise</span>. And whatever our views of its cause, we can agree that
         children at risk are not at fault. <span class="value religion">Abandonment and
            abuse are not acts of God; they are failures of love.</span><br/><span class="policy prison">And the proliferation of prisons, however necessary</span>,
         is no substitute for hope and order in our souls.<br/>Where there is suffering, there is duty. <span class="value equality">Americans in need are not
            strangers, they are citizens; not problems, but priorities</span>. And all of us
         are diminished when any are hopeless.<br/>Government has great responsibilities, for <span class="value security">public safety</span>
         and <span class="policy health">public health</span>, <span class="policy civil_rights">for civil
            rights</span> and <span class="policy education">common schools</span>. Yet compassion
         is the work of a nation, not just a government. And some needs and hurts are so deep,
         they will only <span class="value religion">respond to a mentor’s touch or a pastor’s prayer.
            Church and charity, synagogue and mosque lend our communities their humanity, and
            they will have an honored place in our plans and in our laws</span>.<br/><span class="value equality">Many in our country do not know the pain of poverty. But we can
            listen to those who do</span>. And I can pledge our Nation to a goal. <span class="value religion">When we see that wounded traveler on the road to Jericho, we will
            not pass to the other side</span>.<br/>America, at its best, is a place where personal responsibility is valued and
         expected.<br/>Encouraging responsibility is not a search for scapegoats; it is a call to conscience.
         And though it requires sacrifice, it brings a deeper fulfillment. We find the fullness
         of life, not only in options, but in commitments. And we find that children and
         community are the commitments that set us free.<br/>Our public interest depends on private character; on civic duty and family bonds and
         basic fairness; on uncounted, unhonored acts of decency which give direction to our
         freedom. Sometimes in life we are called to do great things.
         But as a saint of our times has said, every day we are called to do small things
         with great love. The most important tasks of a democracy are done by
         everyone.<br/>I will live and lead by these principles: <span class="value civility">to advance my
            convictions with civility</span>; to pursue the public interest with courage; to
         speak for greater justice and compassion; to call for responsibility, and try to live
         it
         as well. In all these ways, I will bring the values of our history to the care of
         our
         times.<br/>What you do is as important as anything government does. I ask you to seek a common
         good
         beyond your comfort; to defend needed reforms against easy attacks; to serve your
         Nation, beginning with your neighbor. <span class="value action">I ask you to be
            citizens—citizens, not spectators; citizens, not subjects; responsible citizens
            building communities of service and a nation of character</span>.<br/>Americans are generous and strong and decent, not because we
         believe in ourselves, but because we hold beliefs beyond ourselves. When this
         spirit of citizenship is missing, no government program can replace it. When this
         spirit
         is present, no wrong can stand against it.<br/>
         After the Declaration of Independence was signed,
         Virginia statesman John Page wrote to Thomas Jefferson:
         <br/>We know the race is not to the swift nor the Battle to the Strong. Do you not think
         an
         Angel rides in the Whirlwind and directs this Storm?<br/>Much time has passed since Jefferson arrived for his
         inauguration. The years and changes accumulate, but the themes of this day he would
         know: our Nation’s grand story of courage and its simple dream of dignity. We
         are not the story’s author, who fills time and eternity with His purpose. His purpose
         is
         achieved in our duty; and our duty is fulfilled in service to one another.<br/>Never tiring, never yielding, never finishing, we renew that purpose today: to make
         our
         country more just and generous; to affirm the dignity of our lives and every life.<br/>This work continues. This story goes on. And an angel still rides in the whirlwind
         and
         directs this storm.<br/>
         <span class="value religion">God bless you all, and God bless America</span>. <br/></div>
   </body>
</html>