<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="container">
         <div class="meta">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: George W. Bush</li>
               <li> Party: Republican</li>
               <li> Religion: Methodist</li>
               <li> Profession: Businessman</li>
               <li> Date: January 20, 2005</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMENU">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:pink"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="military"/>Military</li>
               <li style="color:cyan"><input type="checkbox" value="civil_rights"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="government"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      <div class="home">Vice President Cheney, Mr. Chief Justice, President Carter, President Bush, President
         Clinton, Members of the United States Congress, Reverend Clergy, distinguished guests,
         fellow citizens.<br/>On this day, prescribed by law and marked by ceremony, we celebrate the durable wisdom
         of
         our Constitution and recall the deep commitments that unite our country. I am grateful
         for the honor of this hour, mindful of the consequential times in
         which we live, and determined to fulfill the oath that I have sworn and you
         have witnessed.<br/>At this second gathering, our duties are defined not by the words I use, but by the
         history we have seen together. For a half century, <span class="policy foreign">America defended its own freedom by standing watch on distant borders.</span>
         <span class="value democracy">After the shipwreck of communism came years of relative quiet,
            years of repose, years of sabbatical—and then there came a day of fire.</span><br/>We have seen our vulnerability and we have seen its deepest
         source. For as long as whole regions of the world
         simmer in resentment and tyranny, prone to ideologies that feed hatred and excuse
         murder, violence will gather and multiply in destructive power and cross the most
         defended borders and raise a mortal threat.
         There is only one force of history that can break the reign of
         hatred and resentment and expose the pretensions of tyrants and reward the hopes of
         the decent and tolerant, and that is the force of human freedom.<br/>We are led, by events and common sense, to one conclusion: <span class="policy foreign">The survival of liberty in our land increasingly depends on the success of liberty
            in other lands</span>. The best hope for peace in our
         world is the <span class="policy foreign">expansion of freedom in all the
            world.</span><br/>America’s vital interests and our deepest beliefs are now one. From the day of our
         founding, <span class="value equality">we have proclaimed that every man and woman on this
            Earth has rights and dignity and matchless value</span> because they <span class="value religion">bear the image of the Maker of heaven and Earth</span>.<br/><span class="policy government">Across the generations we have proclaimed the imperative of self-government, because
            no
            one is fit to be a master, and no one deserves to be a slave</span>.<br/>Advancing these ideals is the mission that created our Nation. It
         is the honorable achievement of our fathers. Now it is
         the urgent requirement of our Nation’s security, and the calling of our time.
         <span class="policy foreign">So it is the policy of the United States to seek and
            support the growth of democratic movements and institutions in every nation and
            culture, with the ultimate goal of ending tyranny in our world.</span><br/>This is not primarily the task of arms, <span class="policy military">though we will defend
            ourselves and our friends by force of arms when necessary.</span> Freedom, by its
         nature, must be chosen and defended by citizens, and sustained by the rule of law
         and
         the protection of minorities. And when the soul of a nation finally speaks, the
         institutions that arise may reflect customs and traditions very different from our
         own.
         <span class="policy foreign">America will not impose its own style of government
            on the unwilling.</span>
         <span class="policy foreign">Our goal instead is to help others find their own voice,
            attain their own freedom, and make their own way.</span><br/>The great objective of ending tyranny is the
         concentrated work of generations. The difficulty of the task is
         no excuse for avoiding it. America’s influence is not unlimited, but fortunately for the oppressed, America’s influence is considerable,
         and we will use it confidently in freedom’s cause.<br/><span class="policy terrorism">My most solemn duty is to protect this Nation and its people
            from further attacks and emerging threats.</span> Some have unwisely chosen to
         test America’s resolve, and have found it firm. <span class="policy foreign">We will
            persistently clarify the choice before every ruler and every nation: The moral
            choice between oppression, which is always wrong, and freedom, which is eternally
            right. America will not pretend that jailed dissidents prefer their chains, or that
            women welcome humiliation and servitude, or that any human being aspires to live at
            the mercy of bullies. We will encourage reform in other governments by making clear
            that success in our relations will require the decent treatment of their own
            people</span>.<br/><span class="value equality">America’s belief in human dignity will guide our policies, yet
            rights must be more than the grudging concessions of dictators; they are secured by
            free dissent and the participation of the governed.</span>
         <span class="value democracy">In the long run, there is no justice without freedom, and there
            can be no human rights without human liberty</span>.<br/>Some, I know, have questioned the global appeal of liberty—although this time in history,
         four decades defined by the swiftest advance of freedom ever seen, is an odd time
         for
         doubt. Americans, of all people, should never be surprised by the power of our ideals.
         Eventually, the call of freedom comes to every mind and every soul.  We do not accept the existence of permanent tyranny because we
         do not accept the possibility of permanent slavery.<br/><span class="policy foreign">Liberty will come to those who love it. Today, America
            speaks anew to the peoples of the world. All who live in tyranny and hopelessness
            can know the United States will not ignore your oppression, or excuse your
            oppressors. When you stand for your liberty, we will stand with you.</span><br/><span class="policy foreign">Democratic reformers facing repression, prison, or exile
            can know America sees you for who you are, the future leaders of your free
            country.</span> The rulers of outlaw regimes can know that we still believe as Abraham Lincoln did: “Those who deny
         freedom to others deserve it not for themselves; and, under the rule of a just God,
         cannot long retain it.”<br/>The leaders of governments with long habits of control need to know: To serve your
         people
         you must learn to trust them. Start on this journey of progress and justice, and <span class="policy foreign">America will walk at your side. All the allies of the United
            States can know we honor your friendship, we rely on your counsel, and we depend on
            your help</span>. Division among free nations is a primary goal of freedom’s
         enemies. <span class="value democracy">The concerted effort of free nations to promote
            democracy is a prelude to our enemies’ defeat.</span><br/>Today, I also speak anew to my fellow citizens. From all of you, I have asked patience
         in
         the hard task of securing America, which you have granted in good measure. Our country
         has accepted obligations that are difficult to fulfill, and would be dishonorable
         to
         abandon. Yet because we have acted in the great liberating tradition of this Nation,
         tens of millions have achieved their freedom.<br/>As hope kindles hope, millions more will find it. By our
         efforts, we have lit a fire as well—a fire in the minds of men. It warms those who
         feel its power, it burns those who fight its progress, and one day this untamed fire
         of freedom will reach the darkest corners of our world.<br/><span class="policy foreign">A few Americans have accepted the hardest duties in this
            cause—in the quiet work of intelligence and diplomacy; the idealistic work of
            helping raise up free governments; the dangerous and necessary work of fighting our
            enemies.</span>
         <span class="value patriotism">Some have shown their devotion to our country in deaths that
            honored their whole lives</span>, and we will always honor
         their names and their sacrifice.<br/>All Americans have witnessed this idealism, and some for the first time. I ask our
         youngest citizens to believe the evidence of your eyes. You have seen duty and
         allegiance in the determined faces of our soldiers. You have
         seen that life is fragile, evil is real, and courage triumphs. Make the
         choice to serve in a cause larger than your wants, larger than yourself, and in your
         days you will add not just to the wealth of our country, but to its character.<br/>America has need of idealism and courage, because we have essential work at home—the
         unfinished work of American freedom. <span class="value action">In a world moving toward
            liberty, we are determined to show the meaning and promise of liberty</span>.
         <span class="value democracy">In America’s ideal of freedom, citizens find the dignity and
            security of economic independence, instead of laboring on the edge of subsistence.
            This is the broader definition of liberty that motivated the Homestead Act, the
            Social Security Act, and the G.I. Bill of Rights. And now we will extend this vision
            by reforming great institutions to serve the needs of our time.</span>
         <span class="policy education">To give every American a stake in the promise and future of
            our country, we will bring the highest standards to our schools, and build an
            ownership society.</span><br/><span class="policy economy">We will widen the ownership of homes and businesses,
            retirement savings</span>, and <span class="policy health">health
            insurance</span>, preparing our people for the challenge of life in a free
         society. By making every citizen an agent of his or her own destiny, we will give
         our
         fellow Americans greater freedom from want and fear, and make our society more
         prosperous and just and equal.<br/>In America’s ideal of freedom, the public interest depends on private character—on
         integrity, <span class="value equality">and tolerance towards others</span>, and the rule of
         conscience in our own lives. <span class="policy government">Self-government relies, in the end, on the governing of the
            self</span>. That edifice of character is built in families, supported by communities with
         standards, and sustained in our national life by the <span class="value religion">truths of
            Sinai, the Sermon on the Mount, the words of the Koran, and the varied faiths of our
            people</span>. Americans move forward in every generation by reaffirming all that
         is good and true that came before—ideals of justice and conduct that are the same
         yesterday, today, and forever.<br/>In America’s ideal of freedom, the exercise of rights is ennobled by service, mercy,
         and
         a heart for the weak. Liberty for all does not mean independence from one another.
         <span class="value unity">Our Nation relies on men and women who look after a neighbor and
            surround the loss with love</span>. Americans, at our best, value the life we see
         in one another, and must always remember that even the unwanted have worth.<br/><span class="value equality">Our country must abandon all the habits of racism because we
            cannot carry the message of freedom and the baggage of bigotry at the same
            time</span>. From the perspective of a single day, including this day of
         dedication, the issues and questions before our country are many. From the viewpoint of centuries, the questions that come
         to us are narrowed and few. Did our generations advance the cause of freedom?
         And did our character bring credit to that cause?<br/><span class="value unity">These questions that judge us also unite us, because Americans of
            every party and background, Americans by choice and by birth, are bound to one
            another in the cause of freedom</span>. We have known divisions which must be
         healed to move forward in great purposes, and I will strive in good faith to heal
         them.
         Yet those divisions do not define America. We felt the unity and fellowship of our
         Nation when <span class="policy terrorism">freedom came under attack, and our response came
            like a single hand over a single heart</span>. <span class="value unity">We can feel
            that same unity and pride whenever America acts for good</span>, and the victims of
         disaster are given hope, and the unjust encounter justice, and the captives are set
         free.<br/>We go forward with complete confidence in the eventual triumph of
         freedom. Not because history runs on the wheels of inevitability; it is human
         choices that move events. Not because we consider ourselves a chosen nation; <span class="value religion">God moves and chooses as He wills</span>. We have confidence because freedom is the permanent hope of
         mankind, the hunger and dark places, the longing of the soul. When our Founders declared a new order of the ages, when
         soldiers died in wave upon wave for a union based on liberty, when citizens marched
         in peaceful outrage under the banner “Freedom Now,” they were acting on ancient hope
         that is meant to be fulfilled. History has an ebb and flow of justice, but
         history also has a visible direction, set by liberty and the Author of Liberty.<br/>When the Declaration of Independence was first read in
         public and the Liberty Bell was sounded in celebration, a witness said, “It rang as
         if it meant something.” In our time, it means something still. <span class="policy foreign">America, in this young century, proclaims liberty throughout
            the world, and to all the inhabitants thereof</span>. Renewed in our
         strength—tested but not weary—we are ready for the greatest
         achievements in the history of freedom.<br/>
         <span class="value religion">May God bless you, and may He watch over the United States of
            America</span>. <br/></div><div id="license"><!--#include virtual="license.xhtml" --></div>
   </body>
</html>