<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="container">
         <div class="meta">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: Grover Cleveland</li>
               <li> Party: Democratic</li>
               <li> Religion: Presbyterian</li>
               <li> Profession: LawyerSheriff</li>
               <li> Date: March 4, 1885</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMENU">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:pink"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="military"/>Military</li>
               <li style="color:cyan"><input type="checkbox" value="civil_rights"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="government"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      <div class="home">Fellow-Citizens:<br/>In the presence of this vast assemblage of my countrymen I am about to supplement
         and
         seal by the oath which I shall take the manifestation of the will of a great and free
         people. In the exercise of their power and right of self-government they have committed
         to one of their fellow-citizens a supreme and sacred trust, and he here consecrates
         himself to their service.<br/>This impressive ceremony adds little to the solemn sense of
         responsibility with which I contemplate the duty I owe to all the people of the
         land. Nothing can relieve me from anxiety lest by any act of mine their interests
         may suffer, and nothing is needed to strengthen my resolution to engage every
         faculty and effort in the promotion of their welfare.<br/>Amid the din of party strife the people’s choice was made, but its attendant
         circumstances have demonstrated anew the strength and safety of a government by the
         people. <span class="value democracy">In each succeeding year it more clearly appears that our
            democratic principle needs no apology, and that in its fearless and faithful
            application is to be found the surest guaranty of good government.</span><br/>But the best results in the operation of a government wherein <span class="value unity">every citizen has a share
            largely depend upon a proper limitation of purely partisan zeal</span> and effort and a correct
         appreciation of the time when the heat of the partisan should be merged in the <span class="value patriotism">patriotism of the citizen.</span><br/><span class="value democracy">To-day the executive branch of the Government is transferred to new
            keeping. But this is still the Government of all the people, and it should be none
            the less an object of their affectionate solicitude.</span> At this hour the
         animosities of political strife, the bitterness of partisan defeat, and the exultation
         of partisan triumph should be supplanted by an ungrudging acquiescence in the popular
         will and a sober, conscientious concern for the general weal. Moreover, <span class="value unity">if from this
            hour we cheerfully and honestly abandon all sectional prejudice and distrust,</span> and
         determine, with manly confidence in one another, to work out harmoniously the
         achievements of our national destiny, we shall deserve to realize all the benefits
         which
         our happy form of government can bestow.<br/>On this auspicious occasion we may well renew the pledge of our devotion to the
         Constitution, which, launched by the founders of the
         Republic and consecrated by their prayers and patriotic devotion, has for
         almost a century borne the hopes and the aspirations of a great people through
         prosperity and peace and through the shock of foreign conflicts and the perils of
         domestic strife and vicissitudes.<br/>By the Father of his Country our Constitution was commended for adoption as “the result
         of a spirit of amity and mutual concession.” <span class="value unity">In that same spirit it should be
            administered, in order to promote the lasting welfare of the country and to secure
            the
            full measure of its priceless benefits to us and to those who will succeed to the
            blessings of our national life.</span> The large variety of diverse and competing interests
         subject to Federal control, persistently seeking the recognition of their claims,
         need
         give us no fear that “the greatest good to the greatest number” will fail to be
         accomplished if in the halls of national legislation that spirit of amity and mutual
         concession shall prevail in which the Constitution had its birth. If this involves
         the
         surrender or postponement of private interests and the abandonment of local advantages,
         compensation will be found in the assurance that the common interest is subserved
         and
         the general welfare advanced.<br/>In the discharge of my official duty I shall endeavor to be guided by a just and
         unstrained. construction of the Constitution, a careful observance of the distinction
         between the powers granted to the Federal Government and those reserved to the States
         or
         to the people, and by a cautious appreciation of those functions which by the
         Constitution and laws have been especially assigned to the executive branch of the
         Government.<br/>But he who takes the oath today to preserve, protect, and defend
         the Constitution of the United States only assumes the solemn obligation which every
         patriotic citizen—on the farm, in the workshop, in the busy marts of trade, and
         everywhere—should share with him. The Constitution which prescribes his oath, my
         countrymen, is yours; the Government you have chosen him to administer for a
         time is yours; the suffrage which executes the will of freemen is yours; the laws
         and
         the entire scheme of our civil rule, from the town meeting to the State capitals and
         the
         national capital, is yours. Your every voter, as surely as your Chief Magistrate,
         under
         the same high sanction, though in a different sphere, exercises a public trust. Nor
         is
         this all. Every citizen owes to the country a vigilant watch and close scrutiny of
         its
         public servants and a fair and reasonable estimate of their fidelity and usefulness.
         Thus is the people’s will impressed upon the whole framework of our civil
         polity—municipal, State, and Federal; and this is the price of our liberty and the
         inspiration of our faith in the Republic.<br/>
         <span class="policy economy">It is the duty of those serving the people in public
            place to closely limit public expenditures to the actual needs of the Government
            economically administered, because this bounds the right of the Government to exact
            tribute from the earnings of labor or the property of the citizen, and because
            public extravagance begets extravagance among the people.</span> We should never
         be ashamed of the simplicity and prudential economies which are best suited to the
         operation of a republican form of government and most compatible with the mission
         of the
         American people. Those who are selected for a limited time to manage public affairs are
         still of the people, and may do much by their example to encourage, consistently with
         the dignity of their official functions, that plain way of life which among their
         fellow-citizens aids integrity and promotes thrift and prosperity.<br/>The genius of our institutions, the needs of our people in their
         home life, and the attention which is demanded for the settlement and development
         of
         the resources of our vast territory dictate the scrupulous avoidance of any
         departure from that foreign policy commended by the history, the traditions, and the
         prosperity of our Republic. <span class="value liberty">It is the policy of independence, favored by our
            position and defended by our known love of justice and by our power.</span> It is the policy of
         peace suitable to our interests. <span class="policy foreign">It is the policy of neutrality, rejecting any share in
            foreign broils and ambitions upon other continents and repelling their intrusion here.</span>
         It is the policy of Monroe and of Washington and Jefferson—”Peace, commerce, and honest
         friendship with all nations; entangling alliance with none.”<br/>A due regard for the interests and prosperity of all the people demands that our finances
         shall be established upon such a sound and sensible basis as shall secure the safety
         and
         confidence of business interests and make the wage of labor sure and steady, and that
         our system of <span class="policy economy">revenue shall be so adjusted as to relieve
            the people of unnecessary taxation,</span> having a due regard to the interests of
         capital invested and workingmen employed in American industries, and preventing the
         accumulation of a surplus in the Treasury to tempt extravagance and waste.<br/>Care for the property of the nation and for the needs of future settlers requires
         that
         the public domain should be protected from purloining schemes and unlawful
         occupation.<br/><span class="policy civil_rights">The conscience of the people demands that the
            Indians within our boundaries shall be fairly and honestly treated as wards of the
            Government and their education and civilization promoted with a view to their
            ultimate citizenship,</span> and that polygamy in the Territories, destructive of
         the family relation and offensive to the moral sense of the civilized world, shall
         be
         repressed.<br/><span class="policy foreign">The laws should be rigidly enforced which prohibit
            the immigration of a servile class to compete with American labor, with no intention
            of acquiring citizenship, and bringing with them and retaining habits and customs
            repugnant to our civilization.</span><br/>The people demand reform in the administration of the Government and the application
         of
         business principles to public affairs. As a means to this end,<span class="policy government"> civil-service reform should be in good faith
            enforced.</span> Our citizens have the right to protection from the incompetency
         of public employees who hold their places solely as the reward of partisan service,
         and
         from the corrupting influence of those who promise and the vicious methods of those
         who
         expect such rewards; and those who worthily seek public employment have the right
         to
         insist that merit and competency shall be recognized instead of party subserviency
         or
         the surrender of honest political belief.<br/><span class="value equality">In the administration of a government pledged to do equal and exact justice to all
            men</span>
         there should be no pretext for anxiety touching the protection of the <span class="policy civil_rights">freedmen in their
            rights or their security in the enjoyment of their privileges under the Constitution
            and
            its amendments.</span> All discussion as to their fitness for the place accorded to them as
         American citizens is idle and unprofitable except as it suggests the necessity for
         their
         improvement. <span class="policy civil_rights">The fact that they are citizens entitles
            them to all the rights due to that relation and charges them with all its duties,
            obligations, and responsibilities.</span><br/>These topics and the constant and ever-varying wants of an active and enterprising
         population may well receive the attention and the <span class="value patriotism">patriotic endeavor of all who make and
            execute the Federal law.</span> Our duties are practical and call for industrious application,
         an intelligent perception of the claims of public office, and, above all, a firm
         determination, by united action, to secure to all the people of the land the full
         benefits of the best form of government ever vouchsafed to man. <span class="value religion">And let us not trust to
            human effort alone, but humbly acknowledging the power and goodness of Almighty God,
            who
            presides over the destiny of nations, and who has at all times been revealed in our
            country’s history, let us invoke His aid and His blessings upon our labors.</span><br/></div>
   </body>
</html>