<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="container">
         <div class="meta">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: Bill Clinton</li>
               <li> Party: Democratic</li>
               <li> Religion: Baptist</li>
               <li> Profession: Lawyer</li>
               <li> Date: January 20, 1997</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMENU">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:pink"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="military"/>Military</li>
               <li style="color:cyan"><input type="checkbox" value="civil_rights"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="government"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      <div class="home">My fellow citizens:<br/>At this last Presidential inauguration of the 20th century, let us lift our eyes toward the challenges that await us
         in the next century. It is our great good fortune
         that time and chance have put us not only at the edge of a new century in a new
         millennium, but on the edge of a bright new prospect in human affairs. A
         moment that will define our course and our character for decades to come. We must
         keep
         our old democracy forever young. Guided by the ancient
         vision of a promised land, let us set our sights upon a land of new
         promise.<br/>The promise of America was born in the 18th century out
         of the bold conviction that we are all created equal. It was extended and preserved
         in the 19th century, when our Nation spread across the continent, saved the Union,
         and abolished the awful scourge of slavery.<br/>Then, in turmoil and triumph, that promise exploded onto the world
         stage to make this the American century.<br/>And what a century it has been. <span class="policy economy">America became the world’s mightiest industrial power</span>, <span class="policy foreign">saved the world from tyranny in two world wars and a long
            cold war, and time and again reached out across the globe to millions who, like us,
            longed for the blessings of liberty</span>.<br/>Along the way, Americans produced the great middle class and security in old age;
         <span class="policy education">built unrivaled centers of learning and opened public schools to
            all</span>; <span class="value science">split the atom and explored the heavens;
            invented the computer and the microchip</span>; and <span class="policy civil_rights">deepened the wellspring of justice by making a
            revolution in civil rights for African Americans and all minorities, and extending
            the circle of citizenship, opportunity, and dignity to women</span>.<br/>Now, for the third time, a new century is upon us, and another time to choose. We
         began
         the 19th century with a choice to spread our Nation from coast to coast. We began
         the
         20th century, with a choice to harness the Industrial Revolution to our values of
         free
         enterprise, conservation, and human decency. Those choices made all the difference.
         At
         the dawn of the 21st century, a free people must now choose to shape the forces of
         the
         Information Age and the global society, to unleash the limitless potential of all
         our
         people, and, yes, to form a more perfect union.<br/>When last we gathered, our march to this new future seemed less certain than it does
         today. We vowed then to set a clear course, to renew our Nation.<br/>In these 4 years, we have been touched by tragedy, exhilarated by challenge, strengthened by achievement. America
         stands alone as the world’s indispensable nation. <span class="policy economy">Once again, our economy is the strongest on Earth</span>. Once again, we are
         building stronger families, thriving communities, <span class="policy education">better educational opportunities</span>, <span class="policy environment">a
            cleaner environment</span>. Problems that once seemed destined to deepen, now bend
         to our efforts: <span class="value security">our streets are safer</span> and <span class="policy welfare">record numbers or our fellow citizens have moved from welfare to
            work</span>.<br/>And once again, we have resolved for our time a great debate over the role of Government.
         Today we can declare: Government is not the problem; and Government is not the solution.
         We, the American people, we are the solution.<br/>Our Founders understood that well, and gave us a
         democracy strong enough to endure for centuries, flexible enough to face our common
         challenges and advance our common dreams in each new day.<br/><span class="value progress">As times change, so Government must change. We need a new
            Government for a new century</span>, a government humble enough not to try to solve
         all our problems for us, but strong enough to give us the tools to solve our problems
         for ourselves. A Government that is smaller, lives within its means, and does more
         with
         less. Yet where it can stand up for our values and interests around the world, and
         where
         it can give Americans the power to make a real difference in their everyday lives,
         Government should do more, not less. The preeminent mission of our new Government
         is to
         give all Americans an opportunity—not a guarantee—but a real opportunity to build
         better
         lives.<br/>Beyond that, my fellow citizens, the future is up to us. Our Founders taught us that
         the
         preservation of our liberty and our Union depends upon responsible citizenship.<br/>And we need a new sense of responsibility for a new century. There is work to do,
         work
         that Government alone cannot do. <span class="policy education">Teaching children to
            read</span>. <span class="policy welfare">Hiring people off welfare rolls</span>.
         Coming out from behind locked doors and shuttered windows to help <span class="policy crime">reclaim our streets from drugs and gangs and crime</span>. Taking time out of our
         own lives to serve others.<br/><span class="value unity">Each and every one of us, in our own way, must assume personal
            responsibility—not only for ourselves and our families, but for our neighbors and
            our Nation</span>.<br/>Our greatest responsibility is to <span class="value unity">embrace a new spirit of community
            for a new century. For any one of us to succeed, we must succeed as one
            America</span>.<br/>The challenge of our past remains the challenge of our future: Will we be one nation,
         one
         people, with one common destiny—or not? Will we all come together, or come apart?<br/><span class="policy civil_rights">The divide of race has been America’s constant
            curse</span>. <span class="policy immigration">And each new wave of immigrants gives
            new targets to old prejudices</span>. <span class="value equality">Prejudice and
            contempt, cloaked in the pretense of religious or political convictions, are no
            different</span>.<br/>These forces have nearly destroyed our Nation in the past. They
         plague us still. They fuel the fanaticism of terror, and they torment the lives of
         millions in fractured nations all around the world.<br/>These obsessions cripple both those who hate and, of course, those who are hated,
         robbing
         both of what they might become. We cannot—we will not—succumb
         to the dark impulses that lurk in the far regions of the soul, everywhere. We shall
         overcome them.<br/><span class="value unity">We shall replace them with the generous spirit of a people who feel
            at home with one another</span>.<br/><span class="value equality">Our rich texture of racial, religious and political diversity will
            be a godsend in the 21st century</span>. <span class="value unity">Great rewards will
            come to those who can live together, learn together, work together, forge new ties
            that bind together</span>.<br/>As this new era approaches, we can already see its broad outlines. Ten years ago,
         the
         Internet was the mystical province of physicists; today, it is a commonplace
         encyclopedia for millions of schoolchildren. <span class="value science">Scientists now are
            decoding the blueprint of human life</span>. <span class="policy health">Cures
            for our most feared illnesses seem close at hand</span>.<br/><span class="policy foreign">The world is no longer divided into two hostile camps;
            instead, now we are building bonds with nations that once were our adversaries.
            Growing connections of commerce and culture give us a chance to lift the fortunes
            and spirits of people the world over</span>. And for
         the very first time in all of history, more people on this planet live under
         democracy than dictatorship.<br/>My fellow Americans, as we look back at this remarkable century, we may ask, can we
         hope
         not just to follow, but even to surpass the achievements of the 20th century in America,
         and to avoid the awful bloodshed that stained its legacy? To that question, every
         American here and every American in our land today must answer a resounding “Yes.”<br/>This is the heart of our task: With a new vision of Government, a new sense of
         responsibility, a new spirit of community, we will sustain America’s journey. The
         promise we sought in a new land, we will find again in a land of new promise.<br/>In this new land, <span class="policy education">education will be every citizen’s most
            prized possession. Our schools will have the highest standards in the world,
            igniting the spark of possibility in the eyes of every girl and every boy, and the
            doors of higher education will be open to all. The knowledge and power of the
            information age will be within reach, not just of the few but of every classroom,
            every library, every child</span>. Parents and children will have time not only to
         work, but to read and to play together, and the plans they make at their kitchen table
         will be those of a better home, a better job, a certain chance to go to college.<br/>Our streets will echo again with the laughter of our children, <span class="value security">because no one will try to shoot them or sell them drugs anymore</span>. <span class="policy economy">Everyone who can work will work, with today’s permanent underclass
            part of tomorrow’s growing middle class</span>. <span class="policy health">New
            miracles of medicine at last will reach not only those who can claim care
            now</span>, <span class="value equality">but the children and hard-working families too
            long denied</span>.<br/><span class="policy foreign">We will stand mighty for peace and for freedom and
            maintain a strong defense against terror and destruction. Our children will sleep
            free from the threat of nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons</span>. <span class="policy economy">Ports and airports, farms and factories will thrive with trade
            and innovation and ideas</span>. And the world’s greatest
         democracy will <span class="policy foreign">lead a whole world of
            democracies</span>.<br/>Our land of new promise will be a Nation that meets its obligations: <span class="policy economy">A Nation that balances its budget</span>, but never loses the
         balance of its values.<br/>A nation where our <span class="policy health">grandparents have secure retirement and
            health care</span>, and their grandchildren know
         we have made the reforms necessary to sustain those benefits for their time.
         A Nation that fortifies the world’s most productive
         economy, <span class="policy environment">even as it protects the great
            natural bounty of our water, air, and majestic land</span>.<br/>And in this land of new promise, we will have reformed our politics so that the voice
         of
         the people will always speak louder than the din of narrow interests, regaining the
         participation and deserving the trust of all Americans.<br/>Fellow citizens, let us build that America, a nation ever moving forward toward realizing
         the full potential of all its citizens. Prosperity and power, yes, they are important,
         and we must maintain them, <span class="value progress">but let us never forget: The greatest
            progress we have made, and the greatest progress we have yet to make, is in the
            human heart</span>. In the end, all the world’s wealth and a thousand armies are no
         match for the strength and decency of the human spirit.<br/>Thirty-four years ago, the man whose life we celebrate
         today spoke to us down there, at the other end of this Mall, in words that moved the
         conscience of a Nation. Like a prophet of old, he told of his dream that one day
         America would rise up and treat all its citizens as equals before the law and in the
         heart. Martin Luther King’s dream was the American dream. His quest is our quest:
         the ceaseless striving to live out our true creed. Our history has been built on
         such dreams and labors, and by our dreams and labors, we will redeem the promise of
         America in the 21st century.<br/>To that effort, I pledge all my strength and every power of my office. I ask the Members
         of Congress here to join in that pledge. The American people returned to office a
         President of one party and a Congress of another. <span class="value unity">Surely, they did
            not do this to advance the politics of petty bickering and extreme partisanship they
            plainly deplore</span>.<br/>No, they call on us all instead to be repairers of the breach and to move on with
         America’s mission.<br/>America demands and deserves big things from us—and nothing big
         ever came from being small.<br/>Let us remember the <span class="value religion">timeless wisdom of Cardinal Bernardin</span>
         when facing the end of his own life. He said, “It is wrong to waste the precious gift
         of
         time…on acrimony and division.”<br/>Fellow citizens, we must not waste the precious gift of this time, for all of us are
         on
         that same journey of our lives, and our journey, too, will come to an end. But the
         journey of our America must go on.<br/>And so, my fellow Americans, we must be strong, for there is much to dare. The demands of our time are great, and they are different.
         Let us meet them with faith and courage, with patience and a grateful, happy heart.
         Let
         us shape the hope of this day into the noblest chapter in our history. <span class="value unity">Yes, let us build our bridge—a bridge wide enough and strong enough for
            every American to cross over to a blessed land of new promise</span>. May those generations whose faces we cannot yet see,
         whose names we may never know, say of us here that we led our beloved land into a
         new century with the American dream alive for all her children, <span class="value unity">with the American promise of a more perfect Union a reality for all her
            people</span>, <span class="policy foreign">with America’s bright flame of
            freedom spreading throughout all the world</span>.<br/>From the height of this place and the summit of this century, let us go forth. <span class="value religion">May God “strengthen our hands for the good work ahead”—and always,
            always bless our America</span>.<br/></div>
   </body>
</html>