<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="container">
         <div class="meta">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: Bill Clinton</li>
               <li> Party: Democratic</li>
               <li> Religion: Baptist</li>
               <li> Profession: Lawyer</li>
               <li> Date: January 20, 1993</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMENU">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:pink"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="military"/>Military</li>
               <li style="color:cyan"><input type="checkbox" value="civil_rights"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="government"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      <div class="home">My fellow citizens, today, we celebrate the mystery of American renewal.<br/>This ceremony is held in the depth of winter. But, by the words we
         speak and the faces we show the world, we force the spring.<br/>A spring reborn in the world’s oldest democracy, that brings forth the vision and
         courage
         to reinvent America.<br/>
         When our Founders boldly declared America’s
         independence to the world and <span class="value religion">our purposes to the
            Almighty</span>, <span class="value progress">they knew America, to endure, would have to
            change</span>. <br/>Not change for change’s sake, but change to preserve America’s ideals—life, liberty,
         the
         pursuit of happiness. Though we march to the music of our time, our mission is
         timeless.<br/>Each generation of Americans must define what it means to be an American.<br/>On behalf of our Nation, I salute my predecessor, President Bush, for his half-century
         of
         service to America. And I thank the millions of men and women
         whose steadfastness and sacrifice triumphed over depression, fascism, and
         communism.<br/>Today, a generation raised in the shadows of the cold war assumes new responsibilities
         in
         a world warmed by the sunshine of freedom but threatened still by
         ancient hatreds and new plagues.<br/>Raised in unrivaled prosperity, we inherit an economy that is still
         the world’s strongest, <span class="policy economy">but is weakened by business
            failures, stagnant wages</span>, <span class="value equality">increasing inequality, and
            deep divisions among our own people</span>.<br/>When George Washington first took the oath I have just
         sworn to uphold, news traveled slowly across the land by horseback and across the
         ocean by boat. Now, the sights and sounds of this ceremony are broadcast
         instantaneously to billions around the world.<br/>Communications and commerce are global; investment is mobile; technology is almost
         magical; and ambition for a better life is now universal. We earn our livelihood in
         America today in peaceful competition with people all across the Earth.<br/>Profound and powerful forces are shaking and remaking our world, <span class="value progress">and the urgent question of our time is whether we can make change our friend and
            not our enemy</span>.<br/>This new world has already enriched the lives of millions of Americans who are able
         to
         compete and win in it. <span class="value equality">But when most people are working harder
            for less; when others cannot work at all</span>; <span class="policy health">when
            the cost of health care devastates families and threatens to bankrupt our
            enterprises</span>, great and small; <span class="policy crime">when the fear of crime
            robs law-abiding citizens of their freedom</span>; <span class="value equality">and when
            millions of poor children cannot even imagine the lives we are calling them to
            lead</span>—we have not made change our friend.<br/>We know we have to face hard truths and take strong steps. But we
         have not done so. Instead, we have drifted, and that drifting has eroded our
         resources, fractured our economy, and shaken our confidence.<br/>Though our challenges are fearsome, so are our strengths.
         Americans have ever been a restless, questing, hopeful people. And we must
         bring to our task today the vision and will of those who came before us.<br/>From our Revolution to the Civil War, to the Great
         Depression, to the civil rights movement, our
         people have always mustered the determination to construct from these crises the
         pillars of our history.<br/>Thomas Jefferson believed that to preserve the very
         foundations of our Nation, <span class="value progress">we would need dramatic
            change from time to time</span>. Well, my fellow Americans, this is our time. Let
         us embrace it.<br/>Our democracy must be not only the envy of the world but the engine of our own renewal.
         There is nothing wrong with America that cannot be cured
         by what is right with America.<br/><span class="value action">So today, we pledge an end to the era of deadlock and drift—and a
            new season of American renewal has begun</span>.<br/>To renew America, we must be bold.<br/><span class="value progress">We must do what no generation has had to do before</span>.
         <span class="policy economy">We must invest more in our own people, in their jobs and in
            their future, and at the same time cut our massive debt</span>. And we must do so
         in a world in which we must compete for every opportunity.<br/>It will not be easy; it will require sacrifice. But it can be done, and done fairly, not choosing sacrifice for
         its own sake, but for our own sake. We must provide for our Nation the way a
         family provides for its children.<br/>Our Founders saw themselves in the light of posterity. We
         can do no less. Anyone who has ever watched a child’s eyes wander into sleep
         knows what posterity is. Posterity is the world to come—the world for whom we hold
         our
         ideals, from whom we have borrowed our planet, and to whom we bear sacred
         responsibility.<br/>We must do what America does best: offer more opportunity to all and demand more
         responsibility from all.<br/><span class="value action">It is time to break the bad habit of expecting something for
            nothing</span>, from our Government or from each other. Let us all take more
         responsibility, not only for ourselves and our families but for our communities and
         our
         country.<br/>To renew America, <span class="value democracy">we must revitalize our democracy</span>.<br/>This beautiful Capital, like every capital since the dawn of civilization, is often
         a
         place of intrigue and calculation. Powerful people maneuver
         for position and worry endlessly about who is in and who is out, who is up and who
         is down, forgetting those people whose toil and sweat sends us here and pays our
         way.<br/>Americans deserve better. And in this city, there are people
         who want to do better. And so I say to all of you here, let us resolve to
         reform our politics, <span class="value equality">so that power and privilege no longer shout
            down the voice of the people</span>. Let us put aside personal advantage so that we
         can feel the pain and see the promise of America.<br/>Let us resolve to make our Government a place for what
         Franklin Roosevelt called “bold, persistent experimentation,” a government for our
         tomorrows, not our yesterdays.<br/>Let us give this Capital back to the people to whom it
         belongs.<br/><span class="policy foreign">To renew America, we must meet challenges abroad as well
            as at home. There is no longer a clear division between what is foreign and what is
            domestic</span>—<span class="policy economy">the world economy</span>,
         <span class="policy environment">the world environment</span>, <span class="policy health">the world AIDS crisis</span>, <span class="policy military">the
            world arms race</span>, they affect us all.<br/>Today, as an old order passes, the new world is more free but less stable. Communism’s collapse has called forth old animosities and new
         dangers. <span class="policy foreign">Clearly America must continue to lead
            the world we did so much to make</span>.<br/>While America rebuilds at home, we will not shrink from the challenges, nor fail to
         seize
         the opportunities, of this new world. <span class="policy foreign">Together with our
            friends and allies, we will work to shape change, lest it engulf us</span>.<br/><span class="policy foreign">When our vital interests are challenged, or the will and
            conscience of the international community is defied, we will act—with peaceful
            diplomacy whenever possible, with force when necessary</span>. <span class="policy military">The brave Americans serving our Nation today in the Persian
            Gulf, in Somalia, and wherever else they stand are testament to our
            resolve</span>.<br/>But our greatest strength is the power of our ideas, which are
         still new in many lands. Across the world, we see them embraced—and we
         rejoice. <span class="policy foreign">Our hopes, our hearts, and our hands,
            are with those on every continent who are building democracy and freedom. Their
            cause is America’s cause</span>.<br/><span class="value progress">The American people have summoned the change we celebrate
            today</span>. You have raised your voices in an unmistakable chorus. You have cast
         your votes in historic numbers. And you have changed the face of the Congress, the
         Presidency, and the political process itself.<br/>Yes, you, my fellow Americans, have forced the spring.<br/>Now, we must do the work the season demands.<br/>To that work I now turn, with all the authority of my office. I ask the Congress to
         join
         with me. But no President, no Congress, no government, can undertake this mission
         alone.<br/>My fellow Americans, you, too, must play your part in our renewal.<br/><span class="value unity">I challenge a new generation of young Americans to a season of
            service—to act on your idealism by helping troubled children, keeping company with
            those in need, reconnecting our torn communities</span>. There is so much to be
         done—enough indeed for millions of others who are still young in spirit to give of
         themselves in service, too.<br/><span class="value unity">In serving, we recognize a simple but powerful truth: We need each
            other. And we must care for one another</span>.<br/>Today, we do more than celebrate America; we rededicate ourselves to the very idea
         of
         America: An idea born in revolution and renewed through two centuries of challenge;
         An
         idea tempered by the knowledge that, but for fate, <span class="value unity">we—the fortunate
            and the unfortunate—might have been each other; An idea ennobled by the faith that
            our Nation can summon from its myriad diversity the deepest measure of
            unity</span>; An idea infused with the conviction that <span class="value progress">America’s
            long heroic journey must go forever upward</span>.<br/>And so, my fellow Americans, as we stand at the edge of the 21st century, <span class="value progress">let us begin anew with energy and hope</span>, with faith and
         discipline, and let us work until our work is done. <span class="value religion">The Scripture
            says “And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season, we shall reap, if
            we
            faint not.”</span><br/>From this joyful mountaintop of celebration, we hear a call to service in the valley.<br/>We have heard the trumpets. We have changed the guard. <span class="value religion">And
               now—each in our own way, and with God’s help—we must answer the call</span>.<br/> Thank you, and <span class="value religion">God bless you all</span>. <br/></div><div id="license"><!--#include virtual="license.xhtml" --></div>
   </body>
</html>