<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="container">
         <div class="meta">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: Lyndon Baines Johnson</li>
               <li> Party: Democratic</li>
               <li> Religion: Disciple of Christ</li>
               <li> Profession: Teacher</li>
               <li> Date: January 20, 1965</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMENU">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:pink"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="military"/>Military</li>
               <li style="color:cyan"><input type="checkbox" value="civil_rights"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="government"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      <div class="home">My fellow countrymen, on this occasion, <span class="value religion">the oath I have taken
            before you and before God</span> is not mine alone, but ours together. We are one
         nation and one people. Our fate as a nation and our future as a people rest not upon
         one
         citizen, but upon all citizens.<br/>This is the majesty and the meaning of this moment.<br/>For every generation, there is a destiny. For some, history decides. For this generation,
         the choice must be our own.<br/><span class="value science">Even now, a rocket moves toward Mars</span>. It reminds us that the world will not be the same for
         our children, or even for ourselves, in a short span of years. The next man to stand
         here will look out on a scene different from our own, because ours is a time of
         change—rapid and fantastic change bearing the secrets of nature, multiplying the
         nations, placing in uncertain hands new weapons for mastery and destruction, shaking
         old values, and uprooting old ways.<br/>Our destiny in the midst of change will rest on the unchanged character of our people,
         and on their faith.<br/>They came here—the exile and the stranger, brave but frightened—to find a place where
         a
         man could be his own man. <span class="value democracy">They made a covenant with this land.
            Conceived in justice, written in liberty, bound in union</span>, it was meant one
         day to inspire the hopes of all mankind; and it binds us still. If we keep its terms,
         we
         shall flourish.<br/>First, justice was the promise that all who made the journey would share in the fruits
         of
         the land.<br/>In a land of great wealth, families must not live in hopeless poverty. In a land rich in harvest, children just must not go hungry. In
         a land of healing miracles, neighbors must not suffer and die unattended. In a great
         land of learning and scholars, young people must be taught to read and
         write.<br/>For the more than 30 years that I have served this Nation, I have
         believed that this injustice to our people, this waste of our resources, was our
         real enemy. For 30 years or more, with the resources I have had, I have vigilantly
         fought against it. I have learned, and I know, that it will not surrender
         easily.<br/>But change has given us new weapons. Before this generation of Americans is finished,
         this enemy will not only retreat—it will be conquered.<br/>Justice requires us to remember that <span class="policy civil_rights">when any citizen denies
            his fellow, saying, “His color is not mine,” or “His beliefs are strange and
            different,” in that moment he betrays America, though his forebears created this
            Nation</span>.<br/><span class="value liberty">Liberty was the second article of our covenant</span>. It was
         self-government. It was our Bill of Rights. But it was more. America would be a place
         where each man could be proud to be himself: stretching his talents, rejoicing in
         his
         work, important in the life of his neighbors and his nation.<br/>This has become more difficult in a world where change and growth seem to tower beyond
         the control and even the judgment of men. We must work to provide the knowledge and
         the
         surroundings which can enlarge the possibilities of every citizen.<br/><span class="value liberty">The American covenant called on us to help show the way for the
            liberation of man. And that is today our goal</span>. Thus, if as a nation there is
         much outside our control, as a people no stranger is outside our hope.<br/><span class="policy foreign">Change has brought new meaning to that old mission. We
            can never again stand aside, prideful in isolation. Terrific dangers and troubles
            that we once called “foreign” now constantly live among us. If American lives must
            end, and American treasure be spilled, in countries we barely know, that is the
            price that change has demanded of conviction and of our enduring
            covenant</span>.<br/><span class="value science">Think of our world as it looks from the rocket that is heading
            toward Mars</span>. It is like a child’s globe, hanging in space, the continents
         stuck to its side like colored maps. We are all fellow passengers on a dot of earth.
         And
         each of us, in the span of time, has really only a moment among our companions.<br/><span class="value unity">How incredible it is that in this fragile existence, we should hate
            and destroy one another</span>. There are possibilities enough for all who will
         abandon mastery over others to pursue mastery over nature. There is world enough for
         all
         to seek their happiness in their own way.<br/>Our Nation’s course is abundantly clear. We aspire to nothing that belongs to others.
         <span class="value liberty">We seek no dominion over our fellow man, but man’s dominion
            over tyranny and misery</span>.<br/>But more is required. Men want to be a part of a common enterprise—a cause greater
         than
         themselves. Each of us must find a way to advance the purpose of the Nation, thus
         finding new purpose for ourselves. Without this, we shall become a nation of
         strangers.<br/>The third article was union. <span class="value unity">To those who were small and few against
            the wilderness, the success of liberty demanded the strength of union</span>. Two
         centuries of change have made this true.<br/><span class="value unity">No longer need capitalist and worker, farmer and clerk, city and
            countryside, struggle to divide our bounty. By working shoulder to shoulder,
            together we can increase the bounty of all. We have discovered that every child who
            learns, every man who finds work, every sick body that is made whole—like a candle
            added to an altar—brightens the hope of all the faithful</span>.<br/>So let us reject any among us who seek to reopen old wounds and to rekindle old hatreds.
         They stand in the way of a seeking nation.<br/><span class="value unity">Let us now join reason to faith and action to experience, to
            transform our unity of interest into a unity of purpose. For the hour and the day
            and the time are here to achieve progress without strife, to achieve change without
            hatred</span>—not without difference of opinion, but without the deep and abiding divisions which scar the union for
         generations.<br/>Under this covenant of justice, liberty, and union we have become a
         nation—prosperous, great, and mighty. <span class="value liberty">And we have kept
            our freedom</span>. <span class="value religion">But we have no promise from God that our
            greatness will endure. We have been allowed by Him to seek greatness with the sweat
            of our hands and the strength of our spirit</span>.<br/>I do not believe that the Great Society is the ordered, changeless, and sterile battalion
         of the ants. <span class="value progress">It is the excitement of becoming—always becoming,
            trying, probing, falling, resting, and trying—but always trying and always
            gaining</span>.<br/>In each generation, with toil and tears, we have had to earn our
         heritage again.<br/>If we fail now, we shall have forgotten in abundance what we learned in hardship:
         <span class="value democracy">that democracy rests on faith</span>, <span class="value liberty">that
            freedom asks more than it gives</span>, <span class="value religion">and that the
            judgment of God is harshest on those who are most favored</span>.<br/>If we succeed, it will not be because of what we have, but it will be because of what
         we
         are; not because of what we own, but, rather because of what we believe.<br/>For we are a nation of believers. <span class="value unity">Underneath the clamor of building
            and the rush of our day’s pursuits, we are believers in justice and liberty and
            union, and in our own Union</span>. <span class="value liberty">We believe that every man
            must someday be free</span>. And we believe in ourselves.<br/>Our enemies have always made the same mistake. In my lifetime—in
         depression and in war—they have awaited our defeat. Each time, from the secret
         places of the American heart, came forth the faith they could not see or that they
         could not even imagine. It brought us victory. And
         it will again.<br/>For this is what America is all about. It is the uncrossed desert and the unclimbed
         ridge. It is the star that is not reached and the harvest sleeping in the unplowed
         ground. Is our world gone? We say “Farewell.” Is a new world coming? We welcome it—and
         we will bend it to the hopes of man.<br/>To these trusted public servants and to my family and those close friends of mine
         who
         have followed me down a long, winding road, and to all the people of this Union and
         the
         world, I will repeat today what I said on that sorrowful day in November 1963: “I
         will
         lead and I will do the best I can.”<br/>But you must look within your own hearts to the old promises and to the old dream.
         They
         will lead you best of all.<br/>For myself, I ask only, in the words of an ancient leader: “Give me now wisdom and
         knowledge, that I may go out and come in before this people: for who can judge this
         thy
         people, that is so great?”<br/></div>
   </body>
</html>