<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="container">
         <div class="meta">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: Abraham Lincoln</li>
               <li> Party: Republican</li>
               <li> Religion: Unaffiliated</li>
               <li> Profession: Lawyer</li>
               <li> Date: March 4, 1865</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMENU">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:pink"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="military"/>Military</li>
               <li style="color:cyan"><input type="checkbox" value="civil_rights"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="government"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      <div class="home">Fellow-Countrymen:<br/>At this second appearing to take the oath of the Presidential office there is less
         occasion for an extended address than there was at the first. Then a statement somewhat
         in detail of a course to be pursued seemed fitting and proper. Now, at the expiration
         of
         four years, during which public declarations have been constantly called forth on
         every
         point and phase of the great contest which still absorbs the attention and engrosses
         the
         energies of the nation, little that is new could be presented. The progress of our
         arms,
         upon which all else chiefly depends, is as well known to the public as to myself,
         and it
         is, I trust, reasonably satisfactory and encouraging to all. With high hope for the
         future, no prediction in regard to it is ventured.<br/>On the occasion corresponding to this four years ago all thoughts were anxiously directed
         to an <span class="policy military">impending civil war</span>. All dreaded it, all sought to avert it. While the inaugural
         address was being delivered from this place, devoted altogether to saving the Union
         without war, urgent agents were in the city seeking to destroy it without war—seeking
         to
         dissolve the Union and divide effects by negotiation. Both parties deprecated war,
         but
         one of them would make war rather than let the nation survive, and the other would
         accept war rather than let it perish, and the war came. <br/><span class="policy civil_rights">One-eighth of the whole population were colored slaves</span>, not distributed generally over
         the Union, but localized in the southern part of it. These slaves constituted a peculiar
         and powerful interest. All knew that this interest was somehow the cause of the war.
         To
         strengthen, perpetuate, and extend this interest was the object for which the insurgents
         would rend the Union even by war, while the Government claimed no right to do more
         than
         to restrict the territorial enlargement of it. Neither party expected for the war
         the
         magnitude or the duration which it has already attained. Neither anticipated that
         the
         cause of the conflict might cease with or even before the conflict itself should cease.
         Each looked for an easier triumph, and a result less fundamental and astounding.
         Both read the same Bible and pray to
         the same <span class="value religion">God</span>, and each invokes <span class="value religion">His</span> aid against the other.
         It may seem strange that any men should
         dare to ask a just <span class="value religion">God’s</span> assistance in wringing their bread
         from the sweat of other men’s faces, but let us judge not, that we be not judged.
         The prayers of both could not be answered. That of neither has been answered
         fully. The <span class="value religion">Almighty</span> has <span class="value religion">His</span> own purposes.
         “Woe unto the world because of offenses; for it must needs be that offenses come,
         but
         woe to that man by whom the offense cometh.” <br/><span class="policy civil_rights">If we shall suppose that American slavery
            is one of those offenses</span> which, in the providence of <span class="value religion">God</span>,
         must needs come, but which, having continued through <span class="value religion">His</span>
         appointed time, <span class="value religion">He</span> now wills to remove, and that <span class="value religion">He</span> gives to both North and South this terrible war as the
         woe due to those by whom the offense came, shall we discern therein any departure
         from those divine attributes which the believers in a living <span class="value religion">God</span> always ascribe to <span class="value religion">Him</span>? Fondly
         do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass
         away. Yet, if <span class="value religion">God</span>
         wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondsman’s two hundred and
         fifty years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn
         with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was said three
         thousand years ago, so still it must be said “the judgments of the <span class="value religion">Lord</span> are true and righteous altogether.”<br/>
         With malice toward none, with charity for
         all, with firmness in the right as <span class="value religion">God</span> gives us to see the
         right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation’s
         wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his
         orphan, to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among
         ourselves and with all nations.
         <br/></div>
   </body>
</html>