<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="container">
         <div class="meta">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: Richard M. Nixon</li>
               <li> Party: Republican</li>
               <li> Religion: Quaker</li>
               <li> Profession: Lawyer</li>
               <li> Date: January 20, 1969</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMENU">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:pink"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="military"/>Military</li>
               <li style="color:cyan"><input type="checkbox" value="civil_rights"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="government"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      <div class="home">Senator Dirksen, Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Vice President, President Johnson, Vice President
         Humphrey, my fellow Americans—and my fellow citizens of the world community:<br/>I ask you to share with me today the majesty of this
         moment. <span class="value unity">In the orderly transfer of power, we celebrate
            the unity that keeps us free</span>.<br/>Each moment in history is a fleeting time, precious and unique. But some stand out
         as
         moments of beginning, in which courses are set that shape decades or centuries. This
         can
         be such a moment.<br/>Forces now are converging that make possible, for the first
         time, the hope that many of man’s deepest aspirations can at last be
         realized. The spiraling pace of change allows us to contemplate, within our own
         lifetime, advances that once would have taken centuries.<br/>In throwing wide the horizons of space, we have discovered new horizons on earth.
         For the
         first time, because the people of the world want peace, and the leaders of the world
         are
         afraid of war, the times are on the side of peace.<br/>Eight years from now America will celebrate its 200th anniversary as a nation. Within
         the
         lifetime of most people now living, mankind will celebrate that great new year which
         comes only once in a thousand years—the beginning of the third millennium. What kind
         of
         nation we will be, what kind of world we will live in, whether we shape the future
         in
         the image of our hopes, is ours to determine by our actions and our choices.<br/><span class="policy foreign">The greatest honor history can bestow is the title of
            peacemaker. This honor now beckons America—the chance to help lead the world at last
            out of the valley of turmoil</span>, and onto that high ground of peace that man
         has dreamed of since the dawn of civilization.<br/>If we succeed, generations to come will say of us now
         living that we mastered our moment, that we helped make the world safe for
         mankind. This is our summons to greatness. I believe the American people are ready
         to
         answer this call.<br/>The second third of this century has been a time of proud
         achievement. <span class="value science">We have made enormous strides in
            science</span> and industry and agriculture. We have shared our wealth more broadly
         than ever. <span class="policy economy">We have learned at last to manage a modern economy
            to assure its continued growth</span>. <span class="value liberty">We have given freedom
            new reach</span>, <span class="policy civil_rights">and we have begun to make its promise
            real for black as well as for white</span>.<br/>We see the hope of tomorrow in the youth of today. I
         know America’s youth. I believe in them. We can be proud that they are better
         educated, more committed, more passionately driven by conscience than any generation
         in
         our history.<br/>No people has ever been so close to the achievement of a just and
         abundant society, or so possessed of the will to achieve it. Because our
         strengths are so great, we can afford to appraise our weaknesses with candor and to
         approach them with hope.<br/>Standing in this same place a third of a century ago,
         Franklin Delano Roosevelt addressed a Nation ravaged by depression and gripped in
         fear. He could say in surveying the Nation’s troubles: “<span class="value religion">They concern, thank God, only material things</span>.” Our crisis today is the reverse. We have found ourselves
         rich in goods, but ragged in spirit; reaching with magnificent precision for the moon,
         but falling into raucous discord on earth.<br/>We are caught in war, wanting peace. <span class="value unity">We are torn by division, wanting
            unity</span>. We see around us empty lives, wanting fulfillment. <span class="value action">We see tasks that need doing, waiting for hands to do them</span>. To
         a crisis of the spirit, we need an answer of the spirit. To find that answer, we need
         only look within ourselves. When we listen to “the better angels of our nature,” we
         find
         that they celebrate the simple things, the basic things—such as goodness, decency,
         love,
         kindness.<br/>Greatness comes in simple trappings. <span class="value unity">The simple things are the ones
            most needed today if we are to surmount what divides us, and cement what unites us.
            To lower our voices would be a simple thing</span>.<br/>In these difficult years, America has suffered from a fever of
         words; from inflated rhetoric that promises more than it can deliver; from angry
         rhetoric that fans discontents into hatreds; from bombastic rhetoric that postures
         instead of persuading. We cannot learn from one another until we stop
         shouting at one another—until we speak quietly enough so that our words can be heard
         as
         well as our voices.<br/>For its part, government will listen. We will strive to listen in new ways—to the
         voices
         of quiet anguish, the voices that speak without words, the voices of the heart—to
         the
         injured voices, the anxious voices, the voices that have despaired of being heard.
         <span class="value equality">Those who have been left out, we will try to bring in. Those
            left behind, we will help to catch up</span>. For all of our people, we will set as
         our goal the decent order that makes progress possible and our lives secure.<br/>As we reach toward our hopes, our task is to build on what has gone before—not turning
         away from the old, but turning toward the new. In this past third of a century,
         government has passed more laws, spent more money, initiated more programs, than in
         all
         our previous history.<br/><span class="policy economy">In pursuing our goals of full employment, better
            housing</span>, <span class="policy education">excellence in education</span>; in
         rebuilding our cities and improving our rural areas; <span class="policy environment">in protecting our environment</span> and enhancing the quality of life—in all
         these and more, we will and must press urgently forward. <span class="policy military">We
            shall plan now for the day when our wealth can be transferred from the destruction
            of war abroad to the urgent needs of our people at home</span>. <span class="value action">The American dream does not come to those who fall asleep</span>.<br/><span class="policy government">But we are approaching the limits of what government
            alone can do. Our greatest need now is to reach beyond government, and to enlist the
            legions of the concerned and the committed</span>.<br/>What has to be done, has to be done by government and people together or it will not
         be
         done at all. The lesson of past agony is that without the people we can do nothing;
         with
         the people we can do everything.<br/>To match the magnitude of our tasks, we need the energies of our people—enlisted not
         only
         in grand enterprises, but more importantly in those small, splendid efforts that make
         headlines in the neighborhood newspaper instead of the national journal.<br/>With these, <span class="value religion">we can build a great cathedral of the
            spirit</span>—<span class="value unity">each of us raising it one stone at a time, as he
            reaches out to his neighbor, helping, caring, doing</span>.<br/>I do not offer a life of uninspiring ease. I do not call for a life of grim sacrifice.
         I
         ask you to join in a high adventure—one as rich as humanity itself, and as exciting
         as
         the times we live in. <span class="value liberty">The essence of freedom is that each of us
            shares in the shaping of his own destiny</span>.<br/>Until he has been part of a cause larger than himself, no man is truly whole. The
         way to
         fulfillment is in the use of our talents; we achieve nobility in the spirit that
         inspires that use.<br/>As we measure what can be done, we shall promise only what we know we can produce,
         but as
         we chart our goals we shall be lifted by our dreams. <span class="value equality">No man can
            be fully free while his neighbor is not</span>. <span class="value unity">To go forward
            at all is to go forward together</span>.<br/><span class="policy civil_rights">This means black and white together, as one nation, not
            two</span>. The laws have caught up with our conscience. What remains is to give
         life to what is in the law: <span class="value religion">to ensure at last that as all are
            born equal in dignity before God</span>, all are born equal in dignity before man.
         <span class="value unity">As we learn to go forward together at home, let us also seek to
            go forward together with all mankind</span>.<br/><span class="policy military">Let us take as our goal: where peace is unknown, make it
            welcome; where peace is fragile, make it strong; where peace is temporary, make it
            permanent</span>. <span class="policy foreign">After a period of
            confrontation, we are entering an era of negotiation. Let all nations know that
            during this administration our lines of communication will be open</span>.<br/><span class="policy foreign">We seek an open world—open to ideas, open to the
            exchange of goods and people—a world in which no people, great or small, will live
            in angry isolation. We cannot expect to make everyone our friend, but we can try to
            make no one our enemy</span>.<br/><span class="policy foreign">Those who would be our adversaries, we invite to a
            peaceful competition—not in conquering territory or extending dominion, but in
            enriching the life of man</span>.<span class="value science">As we explore the reaches
            of space</span>, <span class="policy foreign">let us go to the new worlds
            together—not as new worlds to be conquered, but as a new adventure to be
            shared</span>.<br/>With those who are willing to join, <span class="policy military">let us cooperate to
            reduce the burden of arms, to strengthen the structure of peace</span>, to lift up
         the poor and the hungry. But to all those who would be tempted by weakness, let us
         leave
         no doubt that we will be as strong as we need to be for as long as we need to be.<br/>Over the past twenty years, since I first came to this Capital as a freshman Congressman,
         I have visited most of the nations of the world. I have come to know the leaders of
         the
         world, and the great forces, the hatreds, the fears that divide the world. <span class="policy foreign">I know that peace does not come through wishing for
            it—that there is no substitute for days and even years of patient and prolonged
            diplomacy</span>.<br/>I also know the people of the world. I have seen the hunger of a homeless child, the
         pain
         of a man wounded in battle, the grief of a mother who has lost her son. <span class="policy civil_rights">I know these have no ideology, no race</span>.<br/>I know America. I know the heart of America is good. I speak from my own heart, and
         the
         heart of my country, the deep concern we have for those who suffer, and those who
         sorrow.<br/><span class="value religion">I have taken an oath today in the presence of God and my
            countrymen</span> to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States. To
         that oath I now add this sacred commitment: <span class="policy military">I shall consecrate
            my office, my energies, and all the wisdom I can summon, to the cause of peace among
            nations</span>.<br/>Let this message be heard by strong and weak alike: <span class="policy military">The peace we
            seek to win is not victory over any other people, but the peace that comes “with
            healing in its wings”; with compassion for those who have suffered; with
            understanding for those who have opposed us; with the opportunity for all the
            peoples of this earth to choose their own destiny</span>.<br/> Only a few short weeks ago, <span class="value religion">we shared the glory of man’s first
            sight of the world as God sees it</span>, <span class="value science">as a single sphere reflecting light in the
            darkness. As the Apollo astronauts flew over the moon’s gray surface on Christmas
            Eve, they spoke to us of the beauty of earth—and in that voice so clear across the
            lunar distance</span>, <span class="value religion">we heard them invoke God’s blessing on its goodness</span>.<br/>In that moment, their view from the moon moved poet Archibald MacLeish to write: “To
         see
         the earth as it truly is, small and blue and beautiful in that eternal silence where
         it
         floats, is to see ourselves as riders on the earth together, brothers on that bright
         loveliness in the eternal cold—brothers who know now they are truly brothers.”<br/><span class="value science">In that moment of surpassing technological triumph, men turned their thoughts toward
            home
            and humanity—seeing in that far perspective that man’s destiny on earth is not
            divisible; telling us that however far we reach into the cosmos, our destiny lies
            not in
            the stars but on Earth itself, in our own hands, in our own hearts</span>.<br/>We have endured a long night of the American spirit. But as our eyes catch the dimness
         of
         the first rays of dawn, let us not curse the remaining dark. Let us gather the
         light.<br/>Our destiny offers, not the cup of despair, but the chalice of opportunity. So let
         us seize it, not in fear, but in
         gladness—and, “riders on the earth together,” let us go forward, firm in our faith,
         steadfast in our purpose, cautious of the dangers; <span class="value religion">but sustained by our confidence
            in the will of God and the promise of man</span>.<br/></div>
   </body>
</html>