<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="flex">
         <div class="metadata">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: Barack Obama</li>
               <li> Party: Democratic</li>
               <li> Religion: Unaffiliated</li>
               <li> Profession: ProfessorCommunity Organizer</li>
               <li> Date: January 21, 2013</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMenu">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:pink"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="slavery"/>Slavery</li>
               <li style="color:cyan"><input type="checkbox" value="civil"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="govt"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="home">Vice President Biden, Mr. Chief Justice, Members of the U.S. Congress, distinguished
            guests, and fellow citizens, each time we gather to inaugurate a President, we bear
            witness to the enduring strength of our Constitution. <span class="value democracy">We affirm
               the promise of our democracy</span>. <span class="value equality">We recall that what
               binds this Nation together are not the colors of our skin or the tenets of our faith
               or the origins of our names</span>. <span class="value patriotism">What makes us
               exceptional--what makes us American</span>--is our allegiance to an idea,
            articulated in a declaration made more than two centuries ago:<br/>We hold these truths to be self-evident,
            <span class="value equality">that all men are created equal</span>, that they are endowed
            by their <span class="value religion">Creator</span> with certain unalienable Rights, that
            among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.<br/>Today we continue a never-ending journey to bridge the meaning of those words with
            the
            realities of our time, for history tells us that while these truths may be self-evident,
            they have never been self-executing; that while <span class="value religion">freedom is a gift
               from God it must be secured by His people here on Earth</span>.<br/>The patriots of 1776 did not fight to replace the tyranny
            of a king with the privileges of a few or the rule of a mob. They gave to us
            a republic, a government of and by and for the people, entrusting each generation
            to
            keep safe our founding creed. For more than 200 years, we have. Through blood drawn
            by
            lash and blood drawn by sword, <span class="value equality">we learned that no union founded
               on the principles of liberty and equality could survive half slave and half
               free</span>. <span class="value progress">We made ourselves anew and vowed to move
               forward together</span>. <span class="policy economy">Together, we determined that a
               modern economy requires railroads and highways to speed travel and
               commerce</span>; <span class="policy education">schools and colleges to train our
               workers</span>. Together, we discovered <span class="policy economy">that a free
               market only thrives when there are rules to ensure competition and fair
               play</span>. Together, we resolve that <span class="value security">a great nation must
               care for the vulnerable and protect its people from life's worst hazards and
               misfortunes</span>. <span class="value democracy">Through it all, we have never
               relinquished our skepticism of central authority, nor have we succumbed to the
               fiction that all society's ills can be cured through government alone</span>. Our
            celebration of initiative and enterprise, our insistence on hard work and personal
            responsibility, these are constants in our character.<br/><span class="value progress">We have always understood that when times change, so must we; that
               fidelity to our founding principles requires new responses to new
               challenges</span>; that <span class="value action">preserving our individual freedoms
               ultimately requires collective action</span>, for the American people can no more
            meet the demands of today's world by acting alone <span class="value democracy">than American
               soldiers could have met the forces of fascism or communism with muskets and
               militias</span>. No single person can train all the <span class="policy education">math and science teachers we will need</span> to equip our children for the future or<span class="policy economy"> build the roads and networks and research labs that will bring new
               jobs to our shores</span>. Now, more than ever, we must do these things <span class="value unity">together as one Nation and one people</span>.<br/>This generation of Americans has been tested by crises that
            steeled our resolve and proved our resilience. A
            decade of war is now ending.<br/><span class="policy economy">An economic recovery has begun</span>.<br/>America's possibilities are limitless, for we possess all the
            qualities this world without boundaries demands: youth and drive, diversity and
            openness, an endless capacity for risk, and a gift for reinvention.<br/>My fellow Americans, we are made for this moment,
            <span class="value unity">and we will seize it so long as we seize it
               together</span>.<br/>For we, the People, understand that our country cannot succeed when a shrinking few
            do
            very well and a growing many barely make it.<br/>We believe America's prosperity must rest upon the broad shoulders of a rising middle
            class. <span class="policy economy">We know America thrives when every person can find
               independence and pride in their work, when the wages of honest labor liberate
               families from the brink of hardship</span>. We are true to
            our creed when a little girl born into the bleakest poverty knows she has the same
            chance to succeed as anybody else because she is an American, she is free,
            <span class="value equality">and she is equal</span>, not just in <span class="value religion">the eyes of God</span> but also in our own.<br/><span class="value progress">We understand outworn programs are inadequate to the needs of our
               time. We must harness new ideas in technology to remake our government</span>,
            <span class="policy economy">revamp our Tax Code</span>, <span class="policy education">reform our schools, and empower our citizens with the skills they need to work
               harder, learn more, and reach higher</span>. But while the means will change, our
            purpose endures. A nation that rewards the effort and determination of every single
            American, that is what this moment requires. That is what will give real meaning to
            our
            creed.<br/>We, the people, <span class="value equality">still believe that every citizen deserves a basic
               measure of security and dignity</span>. <span class="policy health">We must make
               the hard choices to reduce the cost of health care and the size of our
               deficit</span>. But we reject the belief that America must choose between caring
            for the generation that built this country and investing in the generation that will
            build its future.<br/>For we remember the lessons of our past, when twilight years
            were spent in poverty and parents of a child with a disability had nowhere to
            turn. <span class="value equality">We do not believe, in this country, freedom is
               reserved for the lucky or happiness for the few</span>. We recognize that no matter
            how responsibly we live our lives, any one of us, at any time, may face a job loss
            or a
            sudden illness or a home swept away in a terrible storm. <span class="policy health">The commitments we make to each other, through Medicare and Medicaid and Social
               Security</span>, these things do not sap our Nation; they strengthen us.<br/>They do not make us a nation of takers; they free us to take the risks that make this
            country great.<br/>We, the people, still believe our obligations as Americans are not just to ourselves
            but
            to all posterity. <span class="policy environment">We will respond to the threat of
               climate change</span>, knowing the failure to do
            so would betray our children and future generations.<br/>Some may still deny the overwhelming judgment of science, but none can avoid the <span class="policy environment">devastating impact of raging fires and crippling
               drought and more powerful storms. The path toward sustainable energy sources will
               be
               long and sometimes difficult, but America cannot resist this transition; we must
               lead it</span>. <span class="policy economy">We cannot cede to other Nations the
               technology that will power new jobs and new industries; we must claim its promise.
               That is how we will maintain our economic vitality</span> and our <span class="policy environment">national treasure, our forests and waterways, our
               croplands and snow-capped peaks. That is how we will preserve our planet</span>,
            <span class="value religion">commanded to our care by God</span>. That is what will lend meaning to the creed our Fathers
            once declared.<br/>We, the people, still believe that <span class="policy military">enduring security and lasting
               peace do not require perpetual war. Our brave men and women in uniform, tempered by
               the flames of battle, are unmatched in skill and courage. Our citizens, seared by
               the memory of those we have lost, know too well the price that is paid for liberty.
               The knowledge of their sacrifice will keep us forever vigilant against those who
               would do us harm. But we are also heirs to those who won the peace and not just the
               war, who turned sworn enemies into the surest of friends, and we must carry those
               lessons into this time as well</span>.<br/><span class="policy foreign">We will defend our people and uphold our values through
               strength of arms and rule of law. We will show the courage to try and resolve our
               differences with other Nations peacefully, not because we are naive about the
               dangers we face but because engagement can more durably lift suspicion and
               fear</span>.<br/><span class="policy foreign">America will remain the anchor of strong alliances in every
               corner of the globe, and we will renew those institutions that extend our capacity
               to manage crisis abroad</span>, for no one has a greater stake in a peaceful world
            than its most powerful Nation. <span class="value democracy">We
               will support democracy from Asia to Africa, from the Americas to the Middle East,
               because our interests and our conscience compel us to act on behalf of those who
               long for freedom</span>. <span class="value patriotism">We must be a source of
               hope</span> to the poor, the sick, the marginalized, the victims of prejudice, not
            out of mere charity but because <span class="policy military">peace in our time</span>
            requires the constant advance of those principles that our common creed describes:
            tolerance and opportunity, human dignity and justice.<br/>We, the people, declare today that the most evident of truths, <span class="value equality">that all of us are created equal</span>, is the
            star that guides us still, just as it guided our forebears through Seneca Falls and
            Selma and Stonewall, just as it guided all those men and women, sung and
            unsung, who left footprints along this great Mall to <span class="value religion">hear a
               preacher say we cannot walk alone</span>, to hear a ``King'' proclaim that our
            individual freedom is inextricably bound to the freedom of every soul on Earth.<br/>It is now our generation's task to carry on what those
            pioneers began, <span class="policy civil_rights">for our journey is not
               complete until our wives, our mothers, and daughters can earn a living equal to
               their efforts</span>. <span class="policy civil_rights">Our journey is not complete
               until our gay brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the
               law</span>, <span class="value equality">for if we are truly created equal, then surely
               the love we commit to one another must be equal as well</span>.<br/><span class="value democracy">Our journey is not complete until no citizen is forced to wait
               for hours to exercise the right to vote</span>. Our journey is not complete until
            we find a better way to <span class="policy foreign">welcome the striving,
               hopeful immigrants who still see America as a land of opportunity; until bright
               young students and engineers are enlisted in our workforce rather than expelled from
               our country</span>.<br/>Our journey is not complete until all our children, from the streets of Detroit to
            the
            hills of Appalachia, to the quiet lanes of Newtown, <span class="value security">know they are
               cared for and cherished and always safe from harm</span>. That is our generation's
            task--<span class="value equality">to make these words, these rights, these values of life
               and liberty and the pursuit of happiness real for every American</span>.<br/>Being true to our founding documents does not require us to agree on every contour
            of
            life. It does not mean we will all define liberty in exactly the same way or follow
            the
            same precise path to happiness. Progress does not compel us to settle centuries-long
            debates about the role of government for all time, but it does require us to act in
            our
            time.<br/>For now decisions are upon us, and we cannot afford delay.
            We cannot mistake absolutism for principle or substitute spectacle for politics or
            treat
            name-calling as reasoned debate. <span class="value action">We must act, knowing our work will
               be imperfect. We must act</span>, knowing today's victories will be only partial
            and that it will be up to those who stand here in 4
            years and 40 years and 400 years hence to advance the timeless spirit once conferred
            to us in a spare Philadelphia hall.<br/>My fellow Americans, the oath I have sworn before you today, similar to the one recited
            by others who serve in this Capitol, was an oath to <span class="value religion">God</span>
            and country, not party or faction, and we must faithfully execute that pledge during
            the
            duration of our service. But the words I spoke today are not so different from the
            oath
            that is taken each time a <span class="policy military">soldier signs up for duty</span>
            or <span class="policy foreign">an immigrant realizes her dream</span>. My
            oath is not so different from the pledge we all make to the flag
            that waves above and that fills our hearts with pride. They are the words of
            citizens and they represent our greatest hope.<br/>You and I, as citizens, have the power to set this country's course. You and I, as
            citizens, have the obligation to shape the debates of our time, not only with the
            votes
            we cast but with the voices we lift in defense of our most ancient values and enduring
            ideals. Let each of us now embrace, with solemn duty and awesome joy, what is our
            lasting birthright. With common effort and common purpose, with passion and dedication,
            let us answer the call of history and carry into an uncertain future that precious
            light
            of freedom.<br/>Thank you. <span class="value religion">God bless you, and may He forever bless these United
               States of America</span>.<br/></div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>