<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="container">
         <div class="meta">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: Ronald Reagan</li>
               <li> Party: Republican</li>
               <li> Religion: Presbyterian</li>
               <li> Profession: Actor</li>
               <li> Date: January 20, 1981</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMENU">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:pink"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="military"/>Military</li>
               <li style="color:cyan"><input type="checkbox" value="civil_rights"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="government"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      <div class="home">Senator Hatfield, Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. President, Vice President Bush, Vice
         President Mondale, Senator Baker, Speaker O’Neill, Reverend Moomaw, and my
         fellow citizens:<br/>To a few of us here today, this is a solemn and most momentous occasion; and yet,
         in the history of our Nation, it is a commonplace occurrence. The orderly
         transfer of authority as called for in the Constitution routinely takes place
         as it has for almost two centuries and few of us stop to think how unique we
         really are. In the eyes of many in the world, this every-4-year ceremony we
         accept as normal is nothing less than a miracle.<br/>Mr. President, I want our fellow citizens to know how much you did to carry on this
         tradition. By your gracious cooperation in the transition process, you have
         shown a watching world that we are a united people pledged to <span class="value democracy">maintaining a political system which guarantees
            individual liberty to a greater degree than any other</span>, and I
         thank you and your people for all your help in maintaining the continuity which
         is the bulwark of our Republic.<br/>The business of our nation goes forward. <span class="policy economy">These United
            States are confronted with an economic affliction of great proportions.
            We suffer from the longest and one of the worst sustained inflations in
            our national history. It distorts our economic decisions, penalizes
            thrift, and crushes the struggling young and the fixed-income elderly
            alike. It threatens to shatter the lives of millions of our
            people</span>.<br/><span class="policy economy">Idle industries have cast workers into unemployment, causing
            human misery and personal indignity</span>. <span class="policy economy">Those who do work are denied a fair return for their labor by a tax
            system which penalizes successful achievement and keeps us from
            maintaining full productivity</span>.<br/><span class="policy economy">But great as our tax burden is, it has not kept
            pace with public spending. For decades, we have piled deficit upon
            deficit, mortgaging our future and our children’s future for the
            temporary convenience of the present. To continue this long trend is to
            guarantee tremendous social, cultural, political, and economic
            upheavals</span>.<br/>You and I, as individuals, can, by borrowing, live beyond our means, but for only
         a
         limited period of time. Why, then, should we think that collectively, as a
         nation, we are not bound by that same limitation?<br/>We must act today in order to preserve
         tomorrow. <span class="value action">And let there be no
            misunderstanding—we are going to begin to act, beginning
            today</span>.<br/>The economic ills we suffer have come upon us over several
         decades. They will not go away in
         days, weeks, or months, but they will go away. They will go away because we, as Americans, have the
         capacity now, as we have had in the past, to do whatever needs to be
         done to preserve this last and greatest bastion of freedom.<br/>In this present crisis, government is not the
         solution to our problem.<br/><span class="policy government">From time to time, we have been tempted to
            believe that society has become too complex to be managed by self-rule,
            that government by an elite group is superior to government for, by, and
            of the people. But if no one among us is capable of governing himself,
            then who among us has the capacity to govern someone else</span>? All
         of us together, in and out of government, must bear the burden. The solutions
         we seek must be equitable, with no one group singled out to pay a higher
         price.<br/>We hear much of special interest groups. Our concern must be for a special interest
         group that has been too long neglected. <span class="value equality">It knows no
            sectional boundaries or ethnic and racial divisions, and it crosses
            political party lines</span>. <span class="value unity">It is made up of men
            and women who raise our food, patrol our streets, man our mines and our
            factories, teach our children, keep our homes, and heal us when we are
            sick—professionals, industrialists, shopkeepers, clerks, cabbies, and
            truckdrivers. They are, in short, “We the people,” this breed called
            Americans</span>.<br/><span class="policy economy">Well, this administration’s objective will be a healthy,
            vigorous, growing economy</span> that <span class="value equality">provides
            equal opportunity for all Americans, with no barriers born of bigotry or
            discrimination</span>. <span class="policy economy">Putting America back to
            work means putting all Americans back to work</span>. <span class="policy economy">Ending inflation means freeing all Americans from
            the terror of runaway living costs. All must share in the productive
            work of this “new beginning” and all must share in the bounty of a
            revived economy</span>. With the idealism and fair play which are the
         core of our system and our strength, we can have a strong and prosperous
         America at peace with itself and the world.<br/>So, as we begin, let us take inventory. We are a nation that has a government—not
         the other way around. And this makes us special among the nations of the Earth.
         <span class="policy government">Our Government has no power except
            that granted it by the people. It is time to check and reverse the
            growth of government which shows signs of having grown beyond the
            consent of the governed</span>.<br/><span class="policy government">It is my intention to curb the size and
            influence of the Federal establishment and to demand recognition of the
            distinction between the powers granted to the Federal Government and
            those reserved to the States or to the people. All of us need to be
            reminded that the Federal Government did not create the States; the
            States created the Federal Government</span>.<br/>Now, so there will be no misunderstanding, it is not my intention to do away with
         government. It is, rather, to make it work—work with us, not over us; to stand
         by our side, not ride on our back. Government can and must provide opportunity,
         not smother it; foster productivity, not stifle it.<br/>If we look to the answer as to why, for so many years, we
         achieved so much, prospered as no other people on Earth, it was because
         here, in this land, we unleashed the energy and individual genius of man
         to a greater extent than has ever been done before. <span class="value liberty">Freedom and the dignity of the individual have been more
            available and assured here than in any other place on Earth. The price
            for this freedom at times has been high, but we have never been
            unwilling to pay that price</span>.<br/><span class="policy government">It is no coincidence that our present
            troubles parallel and are proportionate to the intervention and
            intrusion in our lives that result from unnecessary and excessive growth
            of government</span>. It is time for us to
         realize that we are too great a nation to limit ourselves to small
         dreams. We are not, as some would have
         us believe, doomed to an inevitable decline. I do not believe in
         a fate that will fall on us no matter what we do. I do believe in a fate that
         will fall on us if we do nothing. <span class="value action">So, with all the
            creative energy at our command, let us begin an era of national
            renewal</span>. Let us renew our determination, our courage, and our
         strength. And let us renew our faith and our hope.<br/>We have every right to dream heroic dreams. Those who say that we are in a time
         when there are no heroes just don’t know where to look. You can see heroes every day going in and out of factory gates. Others,
         a handful in number, produce enough food to feed all of us and then the
         world beyond. You meet heroes across a counter—and they are on both
         sides of that counter. There are entrepreneurs with faith in themselves
         and faith in an idea who create new jobs, new wealth and
         opportunity. They are individuals and families whose taxes
         support the Government and whose voluntary gifts support church, charity,
         culture, art, and education. <span class="value patriotism">Their patriotism is quiet
            but deep. Their values sustain our national life</span>.<br/>I have used the words “they” and “their” in speaking of these heroes. I could say
         “you” and “your” because I am addressing the heroes of whom I speak—you, the
         citizens of this blessed land. Your dreams, your hopes, your goals are going to
         be the dreams, the hopes, and the goals of this administration, <span class="value religion">so help me God</span>.<br/>We shall reflect the compassion that is so much a part of your makeup. <span class="value unity">How can we love our country and not love our countrymen,
            and loving them, reach out a hand when they fall, heal them when they
            are sick, and provide opportunities to make them self-sufficient so they
            will be equal in fact and not just in theory</span>?<br/>Can we solve the problems confronting us? Well, the
         answer is an unequivocal and emphatic “yes.”To paraphrase Winston
         Churchill, I did not take the oath I have just taken with the intention of
         presiding over the dissolution of the world’s strongest economy.<br/><span class="policy economy">In the days ahead I will propose removing the roadblocks
            that have slowed our economy and reduced productivity</span>. <span class="policy government">Steps will be taken aimed at restoring the
            balance between the various levels of government</span>. Progress may
         be slow—measured in inches and feet, not miles—but we will progress. <span class="policy economy">Is it time to reawaken this industrial
            giant</span>, <span class="policy government">to get government back
            within its means</span>, <span class="policy economy">and to lighten our
            punitive tax burden</span>. And these will be our first priorities,
         and on these principles, there will be no compromise.<br/>On the eve of our struggle for independence a man
         who might have been one of the greatest among the Founding Fathers, Dr.
         Joseph Warren, President of the Massachusetts Congress, said to his
         fellow Americans, “Our country is in danger, but not to be despaired of
         . . . . On you depend the fortunes of America. You are to decide the
         important questions upon which rests the happiness andthe liberty of
         millions yet unborn. Act worthy of yourselves."<br/>Well, I believe we, the Americans of today, are ready to act worthy of ourselves,
         ready to do what must be done to
         ensure happiness and liberty for ourselves, our children and our
         children’s children.<br/>And as we renew ourselves here in our own land, we will be seen as having greater
         strength throughout the world. We will again be the exemplar of freedom and a
         beacon of hope for those who do not now have freedom.<br/><span class="policy foreign">To those neighbors and allies who share our
            freedom, we will strengthen our historic ties and assure them of our
            support and firm commitment. We win match loyalty with loyalty. We will
            strive for mutually beneficial relations. We will not use our friendship
            to impose on their sovereignty, for our own sovereignty is not for
            sale</span>.<br/><span class="policy foreign">As for the enemies of freedom, those who are
            potential adversaries, they will be reminded that peace is the highest
            aspiration of the American people. We will negotiate for it, sacrifice
            for it; we will not surrender for it—now or ever</span>.<br/>Our forbearance should never be misunderstood. Our reluctance for conflict should
         not be misjudged as a failure of will. <span class="value security">When action is
            required to preserve our national security, we will act</span>. We will
         maintain sufficient strength to prevail if need be, knowing that if we do so we
         have the best chance of never having to use that strength.<br/><span class="value liberty">Above all, we must realize that no arsenal, or no weapon in
            the arsenals of the world, is so formidable as the will and moral
            courage of free men and women</span>. It is a weapon our adversaries in
         today’s world do not have. It is a weapon that we as Americans do have. Let
         that be understood by those who practice terrorism and prey upon their
         neighbors.<br/><span class="value religion">I am told that tens of thousands of prayer meetings are
            being held on this day, and for that I am deeply grateful. We are a
            nation under God, and I believe God intended for us to be free. It would
            be fitting and good, I think, if on each Inauguration Day in future
            years it should be declared a day of prayer</span>.<br/>This is the first time in history that this ceremony has been held, as you have
         been told, on this West Front of the Capitol. Standing here, one faces a
         magnificent vista, opening up on this city’s special beauty and history. At the end of this open mall are those shrines
         to the giants on whose shoulders we stand.<br/>Directly in front of me, the monument to a
         monumental man: George Washington, Father of our country. A man of
         humility who came to greatness reluctantly. He led America out of
         revolutionary victory into infant nationhood. Off to one side, the
         stately memorial to Thomas Jefferson. The Declaration of Independence
         flames with his eloquence.<br/>And then beyond the Reflecting Pool the dignified
         columns of the Lincoln Memorial. Whoever would understand in his heart
         the meaning of America will find it in the life of Abraham
         Lincoln.<br/>Beyond those monuments to heroism is the Potomac River, and on the far shore the
         sloping hills of Arlington National Cemetery with its row on row of simple
         white markers bearing crosses or Stars of David. They
         add up to only a tiny fraction of the price that has been paid for our
         freedom.<br/>Each one of those markers is a monument to the kinds of
         hero I spoke of earlier. Their lives ended in places called Belleau
         Wood, The Argonne, Omaha Beach, Salerno and halfway around the world on
         Guadalcanal, Tarawa, Pork Chop Hill, the Chosin Reservoir, and in a
         hundred rice paddies and jungles of a place called Vietnam.<br/>Under one such marker lies a young man—Martin Treptow—who
         left his job in a small town barber shop in 1917 to go to France with
         the famed Rainbow Division. There, on the western front, he was killed
         trying to carry a message between battalions under heavy artillery
         fire.<br/>We are told that on his body was found a diary. On the flyleaf under the heading,
         “My Pledge,” he had written these words: “America must win this war. Therefore,
         I will work, I will save, I will sacrifice, I will endure, I will fight
         cheerfully and do my utmost, as if the issue of the whole struggle depended on
         me alone.”<br/>The crisis we are facing today does not require of us the kind of sacrifice that
         Martin Treptow and so many thousands of others were called upon to make. It
         does require, however, our best effort, and our willingness to believe in
         ourselves and to believe in our capacity to perform great deeds; to believe
         that together, <span class="value religion">with God’s help, we can and will resolve
            the problems which now confront us</span>.<br/>And, after all, why shouldn’t we believe that? We are
         Americans. <span class="value religion">Godbless you</span>, and thank
         you.<br/></div><div id="license"><!--#include virtual="license.xhtml" --></div>
   </body>
</html>