<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="flex">
         <div class="metadata">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: Franklin D. Roosevelt</li>
               <li> Party: Democratic</li>
               <li> Religion: Episcopal</li>
               <li> Profession: Lawyer</li>
               <li> Date: January 20, 1941</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMenu">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:pink"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="slavery"/>Slavery</li>
               <li style="color:cyan"><input type="checkbox" value="civil"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="govt"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="home"><span class="value patriotism">On each national day of inauguration since 1789, the people have
               renewed their sense of dedication to the United States</span>.<br/>In Washington’s day the task of the people was to create
            and weld together a nation.<br/>In Lincoln’s day the task of the people was to preserve
            that Nation from disruption from within.<br/>In this day the task of the people is to save that Nation and its institutions from
            disruption from without.<br/>To us there has come a time, in the midst of swift happenings, to pause for a moment
            and
            take stock—to recall what our place in history has been, and to rediscover what we
            are
            and what we may be. <span class="value action">If we do not, we risk the real peril of
               inaction</span>.<br/>Lives of nations are determined not by the count of years, but by the lifetime of
            the
            human spirit. The life of a man is three-score years and ten: a little more, a little
            less. The life of a nation is the fullness of the measure of its will to live.<br/>There are men who doubt this. <span class="value democracy">There are men who believe that
               democracy, as a form of Government and a frame of life, is limited or measured by
               a
               kind of mystical and artificial fate that, for some unexplained reason, tyranny and
               slavery have become the surging wave of the future—and that freedom is an ebbing
               tide. But we Americans know that this is not true</span>.<br/><span class="value action">Eight years ago, when the life of this Republic seemed frozen by a
               fatalistic terror, we proved that this is not true. We were in the midst of
               shock—but we acted</span>. We acted quickly, boldly, decisively.<br/>These later years have been living years—fruitful years for the people of this democracy.
            <span class="value security">For they have brought to us greater security</span> and, I
            hope, a better understanding that life’s ideals are to be measured in other than
            material things.<br/><span class="value democracy">Most vital to our present and our future is this experience of a
               democracy which successfully survived crisis at home; put away many evil things;
               built new structures on enduring lines; and, through it all, maintained the fact of
               its democracy</span>.<br/>For action has been taken within the three-way framework of the Constitution of the
            United States. The coordinate branches of the Government continue freely to function.
            The Bill of Rights remains inviolate. The freedom of elections is wholly maintained.
            Prophets of the downfall of American democracy have seen their
            dire predictions come to naught.<br/>Democracy is not dying.<br/>We know it because we have seen it revive—and grow.<br/>We know it cannot die—<span class="value democracy">because it is built on the unhampered
               initiative of individual men and women joined together in a common enterprise—an
               enterprise undertaken and carried through by the free expression of a free
               majority</span>.<br/><span class="value democracy">We know it because democracy alone, of all forms of government,
               enlists the full force of men’s enlightened will</span>.<br/><span class="value democracy">We know it because democracy alone has constructed an unlimited
               civilization capable of infinite progress in the improvement of human
               life</span>.<br/><span class="value democracy">We know it because, if we look below the surface, we sense it
               still spreading on every continent—for it is the most humane, the most advanced, and
               in the end the most unconquerable of all forms of human society</span>.<br/>A nation, like a person, has a body—a body that must be fed and clothed and housed,
            invigorated and rested, in a manner that measures up to the objectives of our time.<br/><span class="policy foreign">A nation, like a person, has a mind—a mind that must
               be kept informed and alert, that must know itself, that understands the hopes and
               the needs of its neighbors—all the other nations that live within the narrowing
               circle of the world</span>.<br/>And a nation, like a person, has something deeper, something more permanent, something
            larger than the sum of all its parts. It is that something which matters most to its
            future—which calls forth the most sacred guarding of its present.<br/>It is a thing for which we find it difficult—even impossible—to hit upon a single,
            simple
            word.<br/>And yet we all understand what it is—the spirit—the faith of
            America. It is the product of centuries. It was born in the multitudes of those who
            came from many lands—some of high degree, but mostly plain people, who sought here,
            early and late, to find freedom more freely.<br/><span class="value democracy">The democratic aspiration is no mere recent phase in human
               history. It is human history</span>. It permeated the ancient life of early
            peoples. It blazed anew in the middle ages. It was written in Magna Charta.<br/>In the Americas its impact has been irresistible. America has been
            the New World in all tongues, to all peoples, not because this continent was a
            new-found land, but because all those who came here believed they could create upon
            this continent a new life—a life that should be new in freedom.<br/>Its vitality was written into our own Mayflower Compact,
            into the Declaration of Independence, into the Constitution of the United States,
            into the Gettysburg Address.<br/>Those who first came here to carry out the longings of their spirit, and the millions
            who
            followed, and the stock that sprang from them—all have moved forward constantly and
            consistently toward an ideal which in itself has gained stature and clarity with each
            generation.<br/>The hopes of the Republic cannot forever tolerate either
            undeserved poverty or self-serving wealth.<br/>We know that we still have far to go; that we must more greatly build the security
            and
            the opportunity and the knowledge of every citizen, in the measure justified by the
            resources and the capacity of the land.<br/>But it is not enough to achieve these purposes alone. <span class="value patriotism">It is not
               enough to clothe and feed the body of this Nation, and instruct and inform its mind.
               For there is also the spirit. And of the three, the greatest is the
               spirit</span>.<br/>Without the body and the mind, as all men know, the Nation could not live.<br/>But if the spirit of America were killed, even though the Nation’s body and mind,
            constricted in an alien world, lived on, the America we know would have perished.<br/>That spirit—that faith—speaks to us in our daily lives in ways often unnoticed, because
            they seem so obvious. It speaks to us here in the Capital of the Nation. It speaks
            to us
            through the processes of governing in the sovereignties of 48 States. It speaks to
            us in
            our counties, in our cities, in our towns, and in our villages. It speaks to us from
            the
            other nations of the hemisphere, and from those across the seas—the enslaved, as well
            as
            the free. <span class="value liberty">Sometimes we fail to hear or heed these voices of
               freedom because to us the privilege of our freedom is such an old, old
               story</span>.<br/>The destiny of America was proclaimed in words of
            prophecy spoken by our first President in his first inaugural in 1789—words almost
            directed, it would seem, to this year of 1941: “The preservation of the sacred fire
            of liberty and the destiny of the republican model of government are justly
            considered…deeply,…finally, staked on the experiment intrusted to the hands of the
            American people.”<br/>If we lose that sacred fire—if we let it be smothered with doubt and fear—then we
            shall
            reject the destiny which Washington strove so valiantly and so triumphantly to
            establish. <span class="value patriotism">The preservation of the spirit and faith of the
               Nation does, and will, furnish the highest justification for every sacrifice that
               we
               may make in the cause of national defense</span>.<br/><span class="value democracy">In the face of great perils never before encountered, our strong
               purpose is to protect and to perpetuate the integrity of democracy</span>.<br/><span class="value patriotism">For this we muster the spirit of America, and the faith of
               America</span>.<br/>We do not retreat. We are not content to stand still. <span class="value religion">As
               Americans, we go forward, in the service of our country, by the will of
               God</span>.<br/></div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>