<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="container">
         <div class="meta">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: Franklin D. Roosevelt</li>
               <li> Party: Democratic</li>
               <li> Religion: Episcopal</li>
               <li> Profession: Lawyer</li>
               <li> Date: January 20, 1945</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMENU">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:pink"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="military"/>Military</li>
               <li style="color:cyan"><input type="checkbox" value="civil_rights"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="government"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      <div class="home">Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Vice President, my friends, you will understand and, I believe,
         agree with my wish that the form of this inauguration be simple and its words brief.<br/>We Americans of today, together with our allies, are passing
         through a period of supreme test. <span class="value democracy">It is a test of our
            courage—of our resolve—of our wisdom—our essential democracy</span>.<br/>If we meet that test—successfully and honorably—we shall perform a service of historic
         importance which men and women and children will honor throughout all time.<br/>As I stand here today, having taken the solemn oath of office in the presence of my
         fellow countrymen—<span class="value religion">in the presence of our God</span>—I know that it is America’s purpose that we shall not
         fail.<br/><span class="policy military">In the days and in the years that are to come we shall work for
            a just and honorable peace, a durable peace, as today we work and fight for total
            victory in war</span>.<br/>We can and we will achieve such a peace.<br/>We shall strive for perfection. We shall not achieve it immediately—but we still shall
         strive. We may make mistakes—but they must never be mistakes which
         result from faintness of heart or abandonment of moral principle.<br/>I remember that my old schoolmaster, Dr. Peabody, said, in days that seemed to us
         then to
         be secure and untroubled: “Things in life will not always run
         smoothly. Sometimes we will be rising toward the heights—then all will seem to
         reverse itself and start downward. The great fact
         to remember is that the trend of civilization itself is forever upward; that a line
         drawn through the middle of the peaks and the valleys of the centuries always has
         an
         upward trend.”<br/>Our Constitution of 1787 was not a perfect instrument; it is not perfect yet. <span class="value unity">But it provided a firm base upon which all manner of men, of all races
            and colors and creeds, could build our solid structure of democracy</span>.<br/>And so today, in this year of war, 1945, we have learned lessons—at a fearful cost—and
         we
         shall profit by them.<br/><span class="policy foreign">We have learned that we cannot live alone, at peace;
            that our own well-being is dependent on the well-being of other nations far away.
            We
            have learned that we must live as men, not as ostriches, nor as dogs in the
            manger</span>.<br/><span class="policy foreign">We have learned to be citizens of the world, members
            of the human community</span>.<br/>We have learned the simple truth, as Emerson said, that “The only way to have a friend
         is
         to be one.”<br/>We can gain no lasting peace if we approach it with suspicion and mistrust or with
         fear.
         We can gain it only if we proceed with the understanding, the confidence, and the
         courage which flow from conviction.<br/><span class="value religion">The Almighty God has blessed our land in many ways. He has given
            our people stout hearts and strong arms with which to strike mighty blows for
            freedom and truth. He has given to our country a faith which has become the hope of
            all peoples in an anguished world</span>.<br/><span class="value religion">So we pray to Him now for the vision to see our way clearly—to see
            the way that leads to a better life for ourselves and for all our fellow men—to the
            achievement of His will to peace on earth.</span><br/></div><div id="license"><!--#include virtual="license.xhtml" --></div>
   </body>
</html>