<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="container">
         <div class="meta">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: Donald John Trump</li>
               <li> Party: Republican</li>
               <li> Religion: Unaffiliated</li>
               <li> Profession: Businessman, TV Personality</li>
               <li> Date: January 20, 2017</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMENU">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:pink"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="military"/>Military</li>
               <li style="color:cyan"><input type="checkbox" value="civil_rights"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="government"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      <div class="home">Chief Justice Roberts, President Carter, President Clinton, President Bush, fellow
         Americans and people of the world – thank you.<br/>We the citizens of America have now joined a great national effort to <span class="value restoration">rebuild our county and restore its promise for all our
            people</span>. Together we will determine the course of America for many, many
         years to come. Together we will face challenges. We will confront
         hardships.
         But we will get the job done.<br/>Every four years we gather on these steps to carry out the orderly and peaceful transfer
         of power. And we are grateful to President Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama for
         their
         gracious aid throughout this transition. They have been magnificent, thank you.<br/>Today’s ceremony, however, has very special meaning because today we are not merely
         transferring power from one administration to another – but
         transferring it from Washington DC and giving it back to you the people. For too
         long a small group in our nation’s capital has reaped the rewards of government
         while the people have borne the cost. <span class="policy economy">Washington
            flourished but the people did not share in its wealth. Politicians prospered but the
            jobs left and the factories closed. The establishment protected itself but not the
            citizens of our country</span>.<br/>
         Their victories have not been your victories. Their triumphs
         have not been your triumphs. While they have celebrated there has been little to
         celebrate for struggling families all across our land.
         <br/>That all changes starting right here and right now because this
         moment is your moment. It belongs to you. It belongs to everyone gathered here today
         and everyone watching all across America today. This is your day. This is your
         celebration.
         And this – the United States of America – is your
         country.<br/>What truly matters is not what party controls our government but that this government
         is
         controlled by the people. Today, January 20 2017, will be
         remembered as the day the people became the rulers of this nation again. The
         forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer. Everyone is
         listening to you now. You came by the tens of millions to become part of a historic
         movement – the likes of which the world has never seen before. At the centre
         of this movement is a crucial conviction – that a nation exists to serve its
         citizens.<br/><span class="policy education">Americans want great schools for their children</span>,
         <span class="policy crime">safe neighbourhoods for their families</span> and <span class="policy economy">good jobs for themselves</span>. These are just and reasonable
         demands Mothers and children trapped in poverty in our inner
         cities, <span class="policy economy">rusted out factories scattered like
            tombstones across the landscape of our nation</span>. <span class="policy education">An education system flushed with cash, but which leaves our young and beautiful
            students deprived of all knowledge</span>. <span class="policy crime">And the crime and
            the gangs and the drugs which deprive people of so much unrealised
            potential</span>. <span class="value unity">We are one nation, and their pain is our
            pain, their dreams are our dreams, we share one nation</span>, one home and one glorious destiny.<br/>Today I take an oath of allegiance to all Americans. <span class="policy economy">For many
            decades, we’ve enriched foreign industry at the expense of American
            industry</span>, <span class="policy military">subsidised the armies of other
            countries, while allowing the sad depletion of our own military</span>. <span class="policy foreign">We've defended other nations’ borders while refusing to
            defend our own. And spent trillions and trillions of dollars overseas while
            America’s infrastructure has fallen into disrepair and decay. We have made other
            countries rich while the wealth, strength and confidence of our country has
            dissipated over the horizon</span>. <span class="policy economy">One by one,
            shutters have closed on our factories without even a thought about the millions and
            millions of those who have been left behind</span>.<br/><span class="value progress">But that is the past and now we are looking only to the
            future</span>. We assembled here today are issuing a new decree to be heard in
         every city, in every foreign capital, in every hall of power – from this day on a
         new
         vision will govern our land – from this day onwards it is only going to be <span class="policy foreign">America first – America first!</span><br/><span class="policy foreign">Every decision on trade, on taxes, on immigration, on
            foreign affairs will be made to benefit American workers and American
            families.</span> Protection will lead to great prosperity and strength. I will fight for you with every bone in my body and I will
         never ever let you down.
         <span class="value restoration">America will start winning again</span>. America will start winning like never before.
         <span class="policy economy">We will bring back our jobs</span>, <span class="policy foreign">we will bring back our borders,</span>
         <span class="value restoration">we will bring back our wealth, we will bring back our
            dreams.</span> We will bring new roads and high roads and bridges and tunnels and
         railways all across our wonderful nation. <span class="policy welfare">We will get our
            people off welfare and back to work – rebuilding our country with American hands and
            American labour</span>. <span class="policy foreign">We will follow two simple
            rules – buy American and hire American</span>.<br/><span class="policy foreign">We see good will with the nations of the world but we do
            so with the understanding that it is the right of all nations to put their nations
            first.</span>
         We will shine for everyone to follow.
         <span class="policy foreign">We will reinforce old alliances and form new
            ones,</span> and <span class="policy terrorism">untie the world against radical
            Islamic terrorism which we will eradicate from the face of the earth</span>.<br/><span class="value patriotism">At the bed rock of our politics will be an allegiance to the
            United States.</span>
         <span class="value unity">And we will discover new allegiance to each other. There is no room
            for prejudice</span>. <span class="value religion">The bible tells us how good and
            pleasant it is when god’s people live together in unity</span>. <span class="value unity">When America is united, America is totally unstoppable</span>. <span class="policy military">There is no fear, we are protected and will always be
            protected by the great men and women of our military</span> and most importantly
         <span class="value religion">we will be protected by god</span>.<br/>Finally, <span class="value progress">we must think big and dream even bigger.</span> As
         Americans, we know we live as a nation only when it is striving. <span class="value action">We
            will no longer accept politicians who are always complaining but never doing
            anything about it. The time for empty talk is over, now arrives the hour of action.
            Do not allow anyone to tell you it cannot be done. No challenge can match the heart
            and fight and spirit of America</span>. We will not
         fail, our country will thrive and prosper again. We stand at the birth of a
         new millennium, ready to <span class="value science">unlock the mysteries of space</span>,
         <span class="policy health">to free the earth from the miseries of
            disease</span>, <span class="policy economy">to harvest the energies, industries and
            technologies of tomorrow</span>. A new national pride will
         stir ourselves, lift our sights and <span class="value unity">heal our
            divisions.</span>
         <span class="value patriotism">It’s time to remember that old wisdom our soldiers will never
            forget, that whether we are black or brown or white, we all bleed the same red blood
            of patriots</span>.<br/><span class="value unity">We all enjoy the same glorious freedoms and we all salute the same
            great American flag and whether a child is born in the urban sprawl of Detroit or
            the windswept plains of Nebraska, they look at the same night sky, and dream the
            same dreams</span>, and they are infused with the breath by the same <span class="value religion">almighty creator</span>.<br/>So to all Americans in every city near and far, small and large, from mountain to
         mountain, from ocean to ocean – hear these words – you will
         never be ignored again. Your voice, your hopes and
         dreams will define your American destiny. Your courage, goodness and love will
         forever guide us along the way.
         <span class="value restoration">Together we will make America strong again, we will make
            America wealthy again, we will make America safe again and yes – together we will
            make America great again</span>.<br/>Thank you. <span class="value religion">God bless you. And god bless America</span>.<br/></div><div id="license"><!--#include virtual="license.xhtml" --></div>
   </body>
</html>