<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
                      "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="index.css" />
        <title>Inaugural Addresses</title>
    </head>
    <body>

        <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
        <h2>
            <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        </h2>
        <div id="aboutus">
            <p>This digital humanities research project was created by undergraduate students Grace
                Campbell, Elizabeth Rapkin, and Edwin Rosenberg under the leadership of Professor
                David J. Birnbaum and undergraduate teaching assistant Evan Ressel. </p>
        </div>

        <div id="about">
            <p>Our research concentrates on the evolution of principles reflected in Presidential
                Inaugural Addresses. As it serves as an introductory speech for a newly elected
                President, Inaugural Addresses set the tone or goals for an upcoming term.
                Delivering these addresses provides an opportunity for communication of American
                leadership with citizens. They can uplift listeners, guiding the country through a
                particular hardship or reflect a change in governmental ideals. Whether exhaustive
                or short, the speech sets the basis of the executive branch’s aims or models for the
                upcoming four years.</p>
            <p>This project focuses on the attached values and policies found throughout the
                Presidential Inaugural Addresses. We specifically targeted the ways these changes
                may differ by political party and religious affiliation. Our analysis began through
                adapting the XML of a <a href="http://inaugural.obdurodon.org/index.xhtml" class="body">previous
                    Digital Humanities project</a>. On our Addresses page you can find a reading
                view of our markup, originally intended to highlight the different tone, values, and
                policies found within each address. Please see our Analysis page to see how we
                analyzed the addresses following our initial markup through Topic Modeling using
                MALLET software and Network Analysis using Cytoscape software. </p>
        </div>
        <div id="license"><!--#include virtual="license.xhtml" --></div>
    </body>
</html>
