<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" --></h2>
      <div class="metadata">
         <ul>
            <li>Joseph Robinette Biden Jr.</li>
            <li>Democratic</li>
            <li>Roman Catholic</li>
            <li>Lawyer</li>
            <li>January 20, 2021</li>
         </ul>
      </div>
      <div class="attributeMenu">
         <p class="chartTitle">Elements</p>
         <ul>
            <li style="color:black"><input type="checkbox" name="policy" value="policy"/>Policy</li>
            <li style="color:navy"><input type="checkbox" name="value" value="value"/>Value</li>
            <li style="color:purple"><input type="checkbox" name="tone" value="tone"/>Tone</li>
         </ul>
      </div>
      <div class="home">This is an example of what our addresses pages will look like.<br/> Chief Justice Roberts, Vice President Harris, Speaker Pelosi, Leader Schumer, Leader
         McConnell, Vice President Pence, distinguished guests, and my fellow Americans.<br/><span class="tone">This is America’s day</span>. <span class="value">This is
            democracy’s day</span>. <span class="tone">A day of history and hope. Of
            renewal and resolve.</span>
         <span class="tone">Through a crucible for the ages America has been tested anew and
            America has risen to the challenge</span>.<br/>
         <span class="value">Today, we celebrate the triumph not of a candidate, but of a
            cause, the cause of democracy</span>.<span class="tone">The will of the people
            has been heard and the will of the people has been heeded</span>. <span class="tone">We have learned again that democracy is precious. Democracy is
            fragile.</span>
         <span class="tone">And at this hour, my friends, democracy has
            prevailed</span>.<br/>So now, <span class="tone">on this hallowed ground where just days ago violence
            sought to shake this Capitol’s very foundation,</span>
         <span class="value">we come together as one nation</span>, <span class="value">under
            God,</span> indivisible, <span class="tone"> carry out the peaceful
            transfer of power as we have for more than two centuries.</span>
         <span class="tone">We look ahead in our uniquely American way – restless, bold,
            optimistic – and set our sights on the nation we know we can be and we must
            be</span>.<br/>I thank my predecessors of both parties for their presence here. I thank them from
         the
         bottom of my heart. <span class="tone">You know the resilience of our Constitution
            and the strength of our nation.</span> As does President Carter, who I spoke to last
         night but who cannot be with us today, but whom we salute for his lifetime of service.
         I
         have just taken the sacred oath each of these patriots took — <span class="tone">an oath first sworn by George Washington.</span><br/><span class="value">But the American story depends not on any one of us, not on some of
            us, but on all of us. On “We the People” who seek a more perfect Union. This is a
            great nation and we are a good people</span>. <span class="tone">Over the
            centuries through storm and strife, in peace and in war, we have come so far</span>.
         <span class="tone">But we still have far to go. We will press forward with speed
            and urgency, for we have much to do in this winter of peril and possibility</span>.
         <span class="value">Much to repair. Much to restore</span>. <span class="tone">Much to heal</span>. <span class="value">Much to build. And much
            to gain</span>.<br/><span class="tone">Few periods in our nation’s history have been more challenging or
            difficult than the one we’re in now. A once-in-a-century virus silently stalks the
            country</span>. <span class="tone">It’s taken as many lives in one year as
            America lost in all of World War II</span>. <span class="policy">Millions of jobs
            have been lost. Hundreds of thousands of businesses closed</span>. <span class="policy">A cry for racial justice some 400 years in the making
            moves us</span>. The dream of justice for all will be deferred no longer. <span class="policy">A cry for survival comes from the planet
            itself</span>. A cry that can’t be any more desperate or any more clear. <span class="policy">And now, a rise in political extremism, white supremacy,
            domestic terrorism that we must confront and we will defeat</span>.<br/>To overcome these challenges – <span class="value">to restore the soul and to
            secure the future of America</span> – requires more than words. <span class="value">It requires that most elusive of things in a democracy: Unity. Unity</span>.<br/><span class="tone">In another January in Washington, on New Year’s Day 1863,
            Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation. When he put pen to paper, the
            President said, “If my name ever goes down into history it will be for this act and
            my whole soul is in it.” My whole soul is in it</span>.<br/>Today, on this January day, my whole soul is in this: <span class="value">Bringing
            America together. Uniting our people. And uniting our nation. I ask every American
            to join me in this cause. Uniting to fight the common foes we face: Anger,
            resentment, hatred. Extremism, lawlessness, violence. Disease, joblessness,
            hopelessness. With unity we can do great things. Important things. We can right
            wrongs</span>. <span class="policy">We can put people to work in good
            jobs</span>. <span class="policy">We can teach our children</span>
         <span class="value">in safe schools</span>. <span class="policy">We can
            overcome this deadly virus</span>. <span class="policy">We can reward
            work, rebuild the middle class</span>, <span class="policy">and make
            health care secure for all</span>. <span class="policy">We can
            deliver racial justice</span>. <span class="value">We can make America, once
            again</span>, <span class="policy">the leading force for good in the
            world</span>.<br/><span class="value">I know speaking of unity can sound to some like a foolish
            fantasy</span>. <span class="tone">I know the forces that divide us are deep
            and they are real</span>. But I also know they are not new. Our history has been a
         constant struggle between the <span class="value">American ideal that we are all
            created equal</span> and the <span class="tone">harsh, ugly reality that
            racism, nativism, fear, and demonization have long torn us apart. The battle is
            perennial. Victory is never assured</span>.<br/><span class="tone">Through the Civil War, the Great Depression, World War,
            9/11, through struggle, sacrifice, and setbacks</span>, <span class="tone">our
            “better angels” have always prevailed</span>. <span class="value">In each of these
            moments, enough of us came together to carry all of us forward. And, we can do so
            now</span>.<br/><span class="value">History, faith, and reason show the way, the way of unity. We can see
            each other not as adversaries but as neighbors. We can treat each other with dignity
            and respect. We can join forces, stop the shouting, and lower the
            temperature</span>. For without unity, there is no peace, only bitterness and fury.
         No progress, only exhausting outrage. No nation, only a state of chaos.<br/><span class="tone">This is our historic moment of crisis and challenge</span>, and
         <span class="value">unity is the path forward. And, we must meet this moment as the
            United States of America</span>. If we do that, <span class="tone">I
            guarantee you, we will not fail</span>. <span class="value">We have never, ever,
            ever failed in America when we have acted together</span>.<br/>And so today, at this time and in this place, <span class="value">let us start
            afresh</span>. All of us. <span class="value">Let us listen to one another. Hear
            one another. See one another. Show respect to one another</span>. Politics need not
         be a raging fire destroying everything in its path. Every disagreement doesn’t have
         to
         be a cause for total war. And, we must reject a culture in which facts themselves
         are
         manipulated and even manufactured.<br/><span class="tone">My fellow Americans, we have to be different than this. America
            has to be better than this. And, I believe America is better than this</span>. Just
         look around. <span class="tone">Here we stand, in the shadow of a Capitol
            dome that was completed amid the Civil War, when the Union itself hung in the
            balance</span>. Yet <span class="tone">we endured and we
            prevailed</span>.<span class="tone"> Here we stand looking out to the
            great Mall where Dr. King spoke of his dream. Here we stand, where 108 years ago at
            another inaugural, thousands of protestors tried to block brave women from marching
            for the right to vote</span>. Today, we mark the swearing-in of the first woman in
         American history elected to national office – Vice President Kamala Harris.<br/>Don’t tell me things can’t change. Here we stand across the Potomac from Arlington
         National Cemetery, where heroes who gave the last full measure of devotion rest in
         eternal peace. And here we stand, <span class="tone">just days after a riotous
            mob thought they could use violence to silence the will of the people, to stop the
            work of our democracy, and to drive us from this sacred ground</span>. <span class="tone">That did not happen. It will never happen. Not today. Not
            tomorrow. Not ever</span>.<br/>To all those who supported our campaign I am humbled by the faith you have placed
         in us.
         To all those who did not support us, let me say this: Hear me out as we move forward.
         Take a measure of me and my heart. And if you still disagree, so be it. <span class="value">That’s democracy. That’s America</span>.<br/>The right to dissent peaceably, within the guardrails of our Republic, is perhaps
         our
         nation’s greatest strength. Yet hear me clearly: <span class="value">Disagreement must
            not lead to disunion</span>. And I pledge this to you: I will be a President for
         all Americans. I will fight as hard for those who did not support me as for those
         who
         did.<br/><span class="value">Many centuries ago, Saint Augustine, a saint of my church, wrote
            that a people was a multitude defined by the common objects of their love</span>.
         What are the common objects we love that define us as Americans? I think I know.
         Opportunity. Security. Liberty. Dignity. Respect. Honor. And, yes, the truth.<br/><span class="tone">Recent weeks and months have taught us a painful lesson</span>.
         <span class="tone">There is truth and there are lies. Lies told for power and
            for profit</span>. And each of us has a duty and responsibility, as citizens, as
         Americans, and especially as leaders – leaders who have pledged to honor our
         Constitution and protect our nation — to defend the truth and to defeat the lies.<br/><span class="tone">I understand that many Americans view the future with some fear
            and trepidation. I understand they worry about their jobs, about taking care of
            their families, about what comes next. I get it</span>. But the answer is not to
         turn inward, to retreat into competing factions, distrusting those who don’t look
         like
         you do, or worship the way you do, or don’t get their news from the same sources you
         do.<br/><span class="value">We must end this uncivil war that pits red against blue, rural versus
            urban, conservative versus liberal. We can do this if we open our souls instead of
            hardening our hearts. If we show a little tolerance and humility. If we’re willing
            to stand in the other person’s shoes just for a moment</span>. Because here is the
         thing about life: There is no accounting for what fate will deal you. There are some
         days when we need a hand. There are other days when we’re called on to lend one. That
         is
         how we must be with one another. <span class="tone">And, if we are this way, our
            country will be stronger, more prosperous, more ready for the future</span>.<br/>My fellow Americans, in the work ahead of us, we will need each other. <span class="tone">We will need all our strength to persevere through this dark
            winter. We are entering what may well be the toughest and deadliest period of the
            virus</span>. <span class="value">We must set aside the politics and finally face
            this pandemic as one nation</span>.<br/>I promise you this: as the <span class="value">Bible says weeping may endure for a
            night but joy cometh in the morning</span>. <span class="tone">We will get
            through this, together The world is watching today</span>.<br/>So here is my message to those beyond our borders: America has been tested and we
         have
         come out stronger for it. <span class="policy">We will repair our alliances
            and engage with the world once again</span>. Not to meet yesterday’s challenges,
         but today’s and tomorrow’s. <span class="tone">We will lead not merely by the example
            of our power but by the power of our example</span>. We will be a strong and trusted
         partner for peace, progress, and security.<br/>We have been through so much in this nation. And, in my first act as President, <span class="value">I would like to ask you to join me in a moment of silent
            prayer</span> to remember all those we lost this past year to the pandemic. <span class="tone">To those 400,000 fellow Americans – mothers and fathers, husbands
            and wives, sons and daughters, friends, neighbors, and co-workers. We will honor
            them by becoming the people and nation we know we can and should be. Let us say a
            silent prayer for those who lost their lives, for those they left behind, and for
            our country. Amen</span>.<br/><span class="tone">This is a time of testing. We face an attack on democracy and on
            truth</span>. <span class="policy">A raging virus</span>. <span class="value">Growing inequity</span>. <span class="policy">The
            sting of systemic racism</span>. <span class="policy">A climate in
            crisis</span>. <span class="policy">America’s role in the
            world</span>. Any one of these would be enough to challenge us in profound ways. But
         <span class="tone">the fact is we face them all at once, presenting this nation
            with the gravest of responsibilities</span>. <span class="value">Now we must step
            up. All of us</span>.<br/>It is a time for boldness, <span class="tone">for there is so much to do</span>. And,
         this is certain. We will be judged, you and I, for how we resolve the cascading crises
         of our era. Will we rise to the occasion? Will we master this rare and difficult hour?
         <span class="tone">Will we meet our obligations and pass along a new
            and better world for our children?</span> I believe we must and <span class="tone">I believe we will</span>. And when we do, we will write the
         next chapter in the American story.<br/>It’s a story that might sound something like a song that means a lot to me. It’s called
         “American Anthem” and there is one verse stands out for me: “<span class="tone">The work and prayers of centuries have brought us to this
            day</span> What shall be our legacy? <span class="tone">What will our
            children say?</span>… Let me know in my heart When my days are through America
         America I gave my best to you.”<br/>Let us add our own work and prayers to the unfolding story of our nation. <span class="tone">If we do this then when our days are through our
            children and our children’s children will say of us they gave their best</span>.
         They did their duty. They healed a broken land.<br/>My fellow Americans, I close today where I began, with a sacred oath. Before <span class="value">God</span> and all of you I give you my word. I will always level
         with you. I will defend the Constitution. <span class="value">I will defend our
            democracy</span>. I will defend America. I will give my all in your service
         thinking not of power, but of possibilities. Not of personal interest, but of the
         public
         good. And together, <span class="tone">we shall write an American story of
            hope</span>, not fear. Of <span class="value">unity</span>, not division. Of light,
         not darkness. An American story of decency and dignity. Of love and of healing. Of
         greatness and of goodness. May this be the story that guides us. The story that inspires
         us. The story that tells ages yet to come that we answered the call of history.<br/>We met the moment. <span class="value">That democracy and hope</span>, truth and
         justice, did not die on our watch but thrived. <span class="value">That our America
            secured liberty at home</span> and stood once again as a beacon to the world. That
         is what we owe our forebearers, one another, and generations to follow. So, with purpose
         and resolve we turn to the tasks of our time. Sustained by <span class="value">faith</span>. Driven by conviction. And, <span class="value">devoted to one
            another</span> and to this <span class="value">country we love with all our
            hearts</span>.<br/>May <span class="value">God bless America</span> and may <span class="policy">God protect our troops</span>. Thank you, America.<br/></div>
   </body>
</html>