<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Addresses</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="addresses.css"/><script src="text.js"></script></head>
   <body>
      <h1><label id="header">Presidential Inaugural Addresses</label></h1>
      <h2><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml"--></h2>
      <div class="flex">
         <div class="metadata">
            <ul>
               <li> Name: Joseph Robinette Biden Jr.</li>
               <li> Party: Democratic</li>
               <li> Religion: Roman Catholic</li>
               <li> Profession: Lawyer</li>
               <li> Date: January 20, 2021</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="attributeMenu">
            <p class="chartTitle">Click to Highlight:</p>
            <ul>
               <li style="color:yellow"><input type="checkbox" value="economy"/>Economy</li>
               <li style="color:red"><input type="checkbox" value="foreign"/>Foreign Policy</li>
               <li style="color:orange"><input type="checkbox" value="slavery"/>Slavery</li>
               <li style="color:fuchsia"><input type="checkbox" value="civil"/>Civil Rights</li>
               <li style="color:lime"><input type="checkbox" value="govt"/>Government</li>
               <li style="color:blue"><input type="checkbox" value="religion"/>Religion</li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="home">Chief Justice Roberts, Vice President Harris, Speaker Pelosi, Leader Schumer, Leader
            McConnell, Vice President Pence, distinguished guests, and my fellow Americans.<br/>This is America’s day. <span class="value democracy">This is
               democracy’s day</span>. A day of history and hope. Of
            renewal and resolve.
            Through a crucible for the ages America has been tested anew and
            America has risen to the challenge.<br/>
            <span class="value democracy">Today, we celebrate the triumph not of a candidate, but of a
               cause, the cause of democracy</span>.The will of the people
            has been heard and the will of the people has been heeded. We have learned again that democracy is precious. Democracy is
            fragile.
            And at this hour, my friends, democracy has
            prevailed.<br/>So now, on this hallowed ground where just days ago violence
            sought to shake this Capitol’s very foundation,
            <span class="value unity">we come together as one nation</span>, <span class="value religion">under
               God,</span> indivisible,  carry out the peaceful
            transfer of power as we have for more than two centuries.
            We look ahead in our uniquely American way – restless, bold,
            optimistic – and set our sights on the nation we know we can be and we must
            be.<br/>I thank my predecessors of both parties for their presence here. I thank them from
            the
            bottom of my heart. You know the resilience of our Constitution
            and the strength of our nation. As does President Carter, who I spoke to last
            night but who cannot be with us today, but whom we salute for his lifetime of service.
            I
            have just taken the sacred oath each of these patriots took — an oath first sworn by George Washington.<br/><span class="value unity">But the American story depends not on any one of us, not on some of
               us, but on all of us. On “We the People” who seek a more perfect Union. This is a
               great nation and we are a good people</span>. Over the
            centuries through storm and strife, in peace and in war, we have come so far.
            But we still have far to go. We will press forward with speed
            and urgency, for we have much to do in this winter of peril and possibility.
            <span class="value restoration">Much to repair. Much to restore</span>. Much to heal. <span class="value progress">Much to build. And much
               to gain</span>.<br/>Few periods in our nation’s history have been more challenging or
            difficult than the one we’re in now. A once-in-a-century virus silently stalks the
            country. It’s taken as many lives in one year as
            America lost in all of World War II. <span class="policy economy">Millions of jobs
               have been lost. Hundreds of thousands of businesses closed</span>. <span class="policy civil_rights">A cry for racial justice some 400 years in the making
               moves us</span>. The dream of justice for all will be deferred no longer. <span class="policy environment">A cry for survival comes from the planet
               itself</span>. A cry that can’t be any more desperate or any more clear. <span class="policy terrorism">And now, a rise in political extremism, white supremacy,
               domestic terrorism that we must confront and we will defeat</span>.<br/>To overcome these challenges – <span class="value restoration">to restore the soul and to
               secure the future of America</span> – requires more than words. <span class="value unity">It requires that most elusive of things in a democracy: Unity. Unity</span>.<br/>In another January in Washington, on New Year’s Day 1863,
            Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation. When he put pen to paper, the
            President said, “If my name ever goes down into history it will be for this act and
            my whole soul is in it.” My whole soul is in it.<br/>Today, on this January day, my whole soul is in this: <span class="value unity">Bringing
               America together. Uniting our people. And uniting our nation. I ask every American
               to join me in this cause. Uniting to fight the common foes we face: Anger,
               resentment, hatred. Extremism, lawlessness, violence. Disease, joblessness,
               hopelessness. With unity we can do great things. Important things. We can right
               wrongs</span>. <span class="policy economy">We can put people to work in good
               jobs</span>. <span class="policy education">We can teach our children</span>
            <span class="value security">in safe schools</span>. <span class="policy health">We can
               overcome this deadly virus</span>. <span class="policy economy">We can reward
               work, rebuild the middle class</span>, <span class="policy health">and make
               health care secure for all</span>. <span class="policy civil_rights">We can
               deliver racial justice</span>. <span class="value restoration">We can make America, once
               again</span>, <span class="policy foreign">the leading force for good in the
               world</span>.<br/><span class="value unity">I know speaking of unity can sound to some like a foolish
               fantasy</span>. I know the forces that divide us are deep
            and they are real. But I also know they are not new. Our history has been a
            constant struggle between the <span class="value equality">American ideal that we are all
               created equal</span> and the harsh, ugly reality that
            racism, nativism, fear, and demonization have long torn us apart. The battle is
            perennial. Victory is never assured.<br/>Through the Civil War, the Great Depression, World War,
            9/11, through struggle, sacrifice, and setbacks, our
            “better angels” have always prevailed. <span class="value unity">In each of these
               moments, enough of us came together to carry all of us forward. And, we can do so
               now</span>.<br/><span class="value unity">History, faith, and reason show the way, the way of unity. We can see
               each other not as adversaries but as neighbors. We can treat each other with dignity
               and respect. We can join forces, stop the shouting, and lower the
               temperature</span>. For without unity, there is no peace, only bitterness and fury.
            No progress, only exhausting outrage. No nation, only a state of chaos.<br/>This is our historic moment of crisis and challenge, and
            <span class="value unity">unity is the path forward. And, we must meet this moment as the
               United States of America</span>. If we do that, I
            guarantee you, we will not fail. <span class="value unity">We have never, ever,
               ever failed in America when we have acted together</span>.<br/>And so today, at this time and in this place, <span class="value progress">let us start
               afresh</span>. All of us. <span class="value unity">Let us listen to one another. Hear
               one another. See one another. Show respect to one another</span>. Politics need not
            be a raging fire destroying everything in its path. Every disagreement doesn’t have
            to
            be a cause for total war. And, we must reject a culture in which facts themselves
            are
            manipulated and even manufactured.<br/>My fellow Americans, we have to be different than this. America
            has to be better than this. And, I believe America is better than this. Just
            look around. Here we stand, in the shadow of a Capitol
            dome that was completed amid the Civil War, when the Union itself hung in the
            balance. Yet we endured and we
            prevailed. Here we stand looking out to the
            great Mall where Dr. King spoke of his dream. Here we stand, where 108 years ago at
            another inaugural, thousands of protestors tried to block brave women from marching
            for the right to vote. Today, we mark the swearing-in of the first woman in
            American history elected to national office – Vice President Kamala Harris.<br/>Don’t tell me things can’t change. Here we stand across the Potomac from Arlington
            National Cemetery, where heroes who gave the last full measure of devotion rest in
            eternal peace. And here we stand, just days after a riotous
            mob thought they could use violence to silence the will of the people, to stop the
            work of our democracy, and to drive us from this sacred ground. That did not happen. It will never happen. Not today. Not
            tomorrow. Not ever.<br/>To all those who supported our campaign I am humbled by the faith you have placed
            in us.
            To all those who did not support us, let me say this: Hear me out as we move forward.
            Take a measure of me and my heart. And if you still disagree, so be it. <span class="value democracy">That’s democracy. That’s America</span>.<br/>The right to dissent peaceably, within the guardrails of our Republic, is perhaps
            our
            nation’s greatest strength. Yet hear me clearly: <span class="value unity">Disagreement must
               not lead to disunion</span>. And I pledge this to you: I will be a President for
            all Americans. I will fight as hard for those who did not support me as for those
            who
            did.<br/><span class="value religion">Many centuries ago, Saint Augustine, a saint of my church, wrote
               that a people was a multitude defined by the common objects of their love</span>.
            What are the common objects we love that define us as Americans? I think I know.
            Opportunity. Security. Liberty. Dignity. Respect. Honor. And, yes, the truth.<br/>Recent weeks and months have taught us a painful lesson.
            There is truth and there are lies. Lies told for power and
            for profit. And each of us has a duty and responsibility, as citizens, as
            Americans, and especially as leaders – leaders who have pledged to honor our
            Constitution and protect our nation — to defend the truth and to defeat the lies.<br/>I understand that many Americans view the future with some fear
            and trepidation. I understand they worry about their jobs, about taking care of
            their families, about what comes next. I get it. But the answer is not to
            turn inward, to retreat into competing factions, distrusting those who don’t look
            like
            you do, or worship the way you do, or don’t get their news from the same sources you
            do.<br/><span class="value unity">We must end this uncivil war that pits red against blue, rural versus
               urban, conservative versus liberal. We can do this if we open our souls instead of
               hardening our hearts. If we show a little tolerance and humility. If we’re willing
               to stand in the other person’s shoes just for a moment</span>. Because here is the
            thing about life: There is no accounting for what fate will deal you. There are some
            days when we need a hand. There are other days when we’re called on to lend one. That
            is
            how we must be with one another. And, if we are this way, our
            country will be stronger, more prosperous, more ready for the future.<br/>My fellow Americans, in the work ahead of us, we will need each other. We will need all our strength to persevere through this dark
            winter. We are entering what may well be the toughest and deadliest period of the
            virus. <span class="value unity">We must set aside the politics and finally face
               this pandemic as one nation</span>.<br/>I promise you this: as the <span class="value religion">Bible says weeping may endure for a
               night but joy cometh in the morning</span>. We will get
            through this, together The world is watching today.<br/>So here is my message to those beyond our borders: America has been tested and we
            have
            come out stronger for it. <span class="policy foreign">We will repair our alliances
               and engage with the world once again</span>. Not to meet yesterday’s challenges,
            but today’s and tomorrow’s. We will lead not merely by the example
            of our power but by the power of our example. We will be a strong and trusted
            partner for peace, progress, and security.<br/>We have been through so much in this nation. And, in my first act as President, <span class="value religion">I would like to ask you to join me in a moment of silent
               prayer</span> to remember all those we lost this past year to the pandemic. To those 400,000 fellow Americans – mothers and fathers, husbands
            and wives, sons and daughters, friends, neighbors, and co-workers. We will honor
            them by becoming the people and nation we know we can and should be. Let us say a
            silent prayer for those who lost their lives, for those they left behind, and for
            our country. Amen.<br/>This is a time of testing. We face an attack on democracy and on
            truth. <span class="policy health">A raging virus</span>. <span class="value equality">Growing inequity</span>. <span class="policy civil_rights">The
               sting of systemic racism</span>. <span class="policy environment">A climate in
               crisis</span>. <span class="policy foreign">America’s role in the
               world</span>. Any one of these would be enough to challenge us in profound ways. But
            the fact is we face them all at once, presenting this nation
            with the gravest of responsibilities. <span class="value action">Now we must step
               up. All of us</span>.<br/>It is a time for boldness, for there is so much to do. And,
            this is certain. We will be judged, you and I, for how we resolve the cascading crises
            of our era. Will we rise to the occasion? Will we master this rare and difficult hour?
            Will we meet our obligations and pass along a new
            and better world for our children? I believe we must and I believe we will. And when we do, we will write the
            next chapter in the American story.<br/>It’s a story that might sound something like a song that means a lot to me. It’s called
            “American Anthem” and there is one verse stands out for me: “The work and prayers of centuries have brought us to this
            day What shall be our legacy? What will our
            children say?… Let me know in my heart When my days are through America
            America I gave my best to you.”<br/>Let us add our own work and prayers to the unfolding story of our nation. If we do this then when our days are through our
            children and our children’s children will say of us they gave their best.
            They did their duty. They healed a broken land.<br/>My fellow Americans, I close today where I began, with a sacred oath. Before <span class="value religion">God</span> and all of you I give you my word. I will always level
            with you. I will defend the Constitution. <span class="value democracy">I will defend our
               democracy</span>. I will defend America. I will give my all in your service
            thinking not of power, but of possibilities. Not of personal interest, but of the
            public
            good. And together, we shall write an American story of
            hope, not fear. Of <span class="value unity">unity</span>, not division. Of light,
            not darkness. An American story of decency and dignity. Of love and of healing. Of
            greatness and of goodness. May this be the story that guides us. The story that inspires
            us. The story that tells ages yet to come that we answered the call of history.<br/>We met the moment. <span class="value democracy">That democracy and hope</span>, truth and
            justice, did not die on our watch but thrived. <span class="value liberty">That our America
               secured liberty at home</span> and stood once again as a beacon to the world. That
            is what we owe our forebearers, one another, and generations to follow. So, with purpose
            and resolve we turn to the tasks of our time. Sustained by <span class="value religion">faith</span>. Driven by conviction. And, <span class="value unity">devoted to one
               another</span> and to this <span class="value patriotism">country we love with all our
               hearts</span>.<br/>May <span class="value religion">God bless America</span> and may <span class="policy military">God protect our troops</span>. Thank you, America.<br/></div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>